110

Metonymy; or, Change of Noun

The Change of one Noun for another Related Noun

Me-ton’-y-my. Sometimes pronounced Met’-o-nym-y. Greek,
Μετωνυµία, from µετά (meta), indicating change, and ὄνομα (onoma),
a name; or, in grammar, a noun.
Metonymy is a figure by which one name or noun is used instead
of another, to which it stands in a certain relation.

The change is in the noun, and only in a verb as connected with
the action proceeding from it.

The names of persons are put by Metonymy for something which
stands in a special relation to them. Thus we speak of “a stanhope”
(carriage), from the Hon. Mr. Stanhope; “a brougham,” from Lord
Brougham; “boycotting,” from Capt. Boycott; a “blanket,” “negus,” a
“spencer,” a “d’oyley,” etc., from the respective inventors.

Thus it will be seen that Metonymy is not founded on resemblance,
but on relation.

When we say that a person writes “a bad hand,” we do not mean a
hand, but we use the noun “hand” for the characters which it writes.

Metonymy is of four kinds: viz., of the Cause, of the Effect, of the
Subject, and of the Adjunct.

I. Metonymy of the Cause is when the cause is put for the effect:
i.e., when the doer is put for the thing done; or, the instrument for that
which is effected; or, where the action is put for the effect produced by
the action.

II. Metonymy of the Effect is the opposite of the above: when the
effect is put for the cause.

III. Metonymy of the Subject is when the subject is put for
something pertaining to it: as the possessor for the possessed; the
thing signified for the sign.

IV. Metonymy of the Adjunct, on the contrary, is when that which
pertains to anything is put for the thing itself.

Some grammarians have added a fifth Metonymy, where the
antecedent is put for the consequent; but it really belongs to
Metonymy of the Cause.

The following is the complete outline of the figure now to be
treated of:-

METONYMY
I. OF THE CAUSE.
i. The person acting for the thing done.
ii. The instrument for the thing effected.
iii. The thing or action for the thing produced by it.
iv. The material for the thing made from or of it.
II. Of the EFFECT.
i. The action or effect for the person producing it.
ii. The thing effected for the instrument or organic cause of it.
iii. The effect for the thing or action causing it.
iv. The thing made for the material from which it is made or produced.
III. Of the SUBJECT.
i. The subject receiving for the thing received.
ii. The container for the contents.
iii. The possessor for the thing possessed.
iv. The object for that which pertains or relates to it.
v. The thing signified for the sign.
IV. Of the ADJUNCT.
i. The accident for the subject.
ii. The contents for the container.
iii. The time for the things done or existing in it.
iv. The appearance of a thing for its nature; or, the opinion about it for the thing itself.
v. The action or affection for the object of it.
vi. The sign for the thing signified.
vii. The name of a person for the person himself, or the thing.