115

Catachresis; or, Incongruity

One word changed for another only remotely connected with it
Cat’-a-chree-sis. Greek, κατάχρησις, from καρά (kata), against, and
χρῆσθαι (chreesthai), to use. Hence, misuse.

Catachresis is a figure by which one word is changed for another,
and this against or contrary to the ordinary usage and meaning of it.
The word that is changed is transferred from its strict and usual
signification to another that is only remotely connected with it. Hence
called by the Latins ABUSIO, abuse.

In Metonymy there is a relation between the two words. In
Synecdoche there is some association between them. In Hendiadys
there is a real connection between them. But in Catachresis all this is
wanting, and the two words or meanings, though they may have
between them something remotely akin or analagous, yet have no real
or strict relation; and the connection is often incongruous.

When man uses this figure, it may often be from ignorance or
through carelessness, but often with good effect. Attention is
sometimes arrested by a delightful incongruity, as when Young writes:

“Her voice was but the shadow of a sound”:
where the sense is very forcibly conveyed by changing the ordinary
usage of the word “shadow.”
“Sorrow was big at her heart.”

Or when we say that a thing is “beautiful to the ear,” or “melodious to
the eye”; or, when we apply the word “sweet” to things other than
articles of food which we taste.

But, when the Holy Spirit uses this figure, it is in order to arrest us;
and to attract our attention, by the apparent incongruity, and thus fix it
on what He says.

Sometimes the translators introduce a Catachresis, where there is
none in the Original: e.g., in Exo. 38:8, they say: “Moses made the
laver of brass, and the foot of it of brass out of the looking-glasses of
the women.” (But see margin.) The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] avoids this by rendering the word correctly “mirrors.”

The figure does not mislead; it merely acts as spice or condiment
does to food.

Catachresis is of three kinds:-

i. Of two words, where the meanings are remotely akin.
ii. Of two words, where the meanings are different.
iii. Of one word, where the Greek receives its real meaning by
permutation from the Hebrew, or some other language, or
foreign usage.