134

Metaphor; or, Representation

A Declaration that one Thing is (or represents) another; or,
Comparison by Representation

Met’-a-phor. Greek, µεταθορά (metaphora), а transference, or
carrying over or across. From µετά (meta), beyond or over, and φέρειν
(pherein), to carry. We may call the figure “Representation” or
“Transference.”

Hence, while the Simile gently states that one thing is like or
resembles another, the Metaphor boldly and warmly declares that one
thing IS the other.

While the Simile says “All flesh is AS grass” (1Pe. 1:24), the
Metaphor carries the figure across at once, and says “All flesh IS
grass” (Isa. 40:6). This is the distinction between the two.

The Metaphor is, therefore, not so true to fact as the Simile, but is
much truer to feeling.

The Simile says “All we like sheep,” while the Metaphor declares
that “we are the sheep of His pasture.”

While, therefore, the word “resembles” marks the Simile:
“represents” is the word that marks the metaphor.

We have recourse to Metaphor when we say of a picture, “This is
my father,” or “This is my mother.” The verb “is” means in this case
represents; there may not be the least resemblance! The verb “is”
always has this meaning and no other when used as a metaphor. No
other verb will do.

Few figures are more misunderstood than the Metaphor. It is one
of the few whose names are well known, and hence it has become. a
general term for any figure; and any figurative language is commonly
called “metaphorical.”

Few figures have been more variously defined. But all the
differences of opinion arise from not separating the figure
Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) on the one hand, ог
distinguishing Simile on the other. The same confusion is seen with
reference to Allegory (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

Let it then be clearly understood that a Metaphor is confined to a
distinct affirmation that one thing is another thing, owing to some
association or connection in the uses or effects of anything expressed
or understood. The two nouns themselves must both be mentioned,
and are always to be taken in their absolutely literal sense, or else no
one can tell what they mean. The figure lies wholly in the verb, or
copula, which, in English, must always be expressed, and never
understood by Ellipsis.

For example, “All flesh is grass.” Here “flesh” is to be taken literally
as the subject spoken of, and “grass” is to be taken equally literally as
that which represents “flesh.” All the figure lies in the verb “is.” This
statement is made under strong feeling, the mind realising some point
of association; but, instead of using the more measured verb
“resembles,” or “is like”; which would be truer to fact, though not so
true to feeling; the verb “is” is used, and the meaning of one thing is
carried across and transferred to the other. It is not, as some might
think, a mere Hebrew idiom to use “is” for “represents”; but it is a
necessity of language arising from the actual condition and character
of the human mind.

We must, therefore, banish the common and loose way in which
the words “metaphor” and “metaphorical” are used, and confine the
figure strictly and exclusively to this, its one true and proper
signification: that of representation.
The Representation referred to in the figure may not lie upon the
surface, and may not be at all apparent in the language itself. It may
be in the uses of the thing represented, or in the effects which it
produces. In this case the Metaphor often comes as a surprise, by the
discovery of a point in which two apparently unrelated objects have
some point in which they really agree. Hence the same thing may be
used, by a Metaphor, to represent two totally different objects by some
different quality or character which may be referred to: e.g., a lion is
used both of Christ and of the devil. We are to “cease from man” as
opposed to trust in God; we are exhorted to “quit” ourselves like men
as opposed to all that is effeminate.

The Latins* [Note: Cicero. Orat. xxvii] called the figure
TRANSLATIO: i.e., Translation, thus denoting the same fact: viz., the
translation or carrying across of one thing and applying it to another
which represents it, just as what is meant in one language is carried
across and expressed or transiated in the words of another language.

It should be observed that the Hebrew has no verb substantive or
copula answering to the Greek and English verb “to be.” Consequently
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] generally puts in italics the verbs “is,” “are,” “were,” etc.
The verb “to be,” though it is not necessary to be expressed in
Hebrew, is yet so really there that the R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] has abandoned the use of italic type with regard to it
in the Old Testament, and so the Revisers state it in their preface. We
prefer the practice of the translators of the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ‚ and believe it is
more correct.

In the Greek, as we shall see below, whenever a Metaphor is

intended, the verb substantative must be used; otherwise it is often
omitted according to the Hebrew usage (see the Beatitudes, etc.). It is,
therefore, more easy to discern a Metaphor in the New Testament
than in the Old. In the latter we have to be guided by what is true to
fact and what is true only to feeling. If we distinguish between these,
we shall not fail to see what is a statement of fact, and what is a
Metaphor.