139

Parcemia; or, Proverb

A wayside-saying in common use

Par-oi-mi-a. παροιμία, a way-side; from παρά (para), beside, and
οἶμος (oimos), a way or path. Hence Parcemia is a way side saying, a
trite expression, or common remark, a proverb. As we say “a saw” or
adage.

Like Parable, Parcemia is used in the Septuagint Version to
translate the Hebrew word 222 (mahshal). Now this noun 222
(mahshal) belongs to the verb 22? (mahshal), which means to rule,
control, to have, or exercise control.

Hence it is plain that there must be a close connection between “a
rule” and “a proverb.” This connection may be illustrated by our phrase
“a ruling principle”; and by the fact that we might term what we call ‘the
Proverbs of Solomon’ ‘Solomon’s Rules’; since that is just what they
are: rules for guiding life. Indeed, if we ask what is the derivation of the
word “Maxim,” we may find its history not unlike that of Tapoipia in
Greek. It would seem to mean ‘a saying most widely used,’ ‘most in
vogue,’ in the market, by the roadside, and in ordinary life generally.
By degrees, usage separated the words Parable and Paroemia; and
Parable was limited to an illustration; while Paroemia was confined to
what we now call a proverb.

The figure is used, therefore, of any sententious saying, because
these are generally such as control and influence life.

The word Parcemia is used in the New Testament (Joh. 10:6),
where it is rendered “parable”; and in 16:25 (twice), 29, and 2Pe. 2:22,
where it is rendered “Proverb.”
The Latin name for the figure is PROVERBIUM, Proverb. Hence,
the name given to the book of Proverbs,* [Note: See The Names and
Order of the Books of the Old Testament, by the same author and
publisher. Price fourpence.] which consists of collections of such brief
sententious sayings which govern the life and control the walk.

Parcemice or Proverbs occuring in Scripture may be divided into
three classes:-

1. Those that are quoted as being already in use as such.

2. Those which, though not quoted as such, were very probably
already in use as proverbial expressions.

3. Those which appear for the first time in Scripture; but which,
owing to their fulness of meaning and their wide application, have
since passed into general use as proverbial sayings.