13

Correspondence

It was reserved for Thomas Boys to extend and develope the study of
Parallelism.

What others before him had thought to be confined to
lines, or only to short passages, he discerned to be true also of whole
paragraphs; yea, of whole sections and even of books. He therefore
discarded the term Parallelism as being altogether inadequate when
used of paragraphs and subjects. He adopted the term
Correspondence as applying to and covering all the Phenomena
connected with the structure of the sacred text. In 1824 he gave the
world his Tactica Sacra, and in the following year he gave his Key to
the Book of Psalms, which opened out the whole subject, and gave
some examples from the Psalms. In 1890, Dr. Bullinger edited from
Mr. Boys’s Interleaved Hebrew Bible, and other of his papers,* [Note:
These were most kindly placed at his service by the Rev. Sydney
Thelwall (Vicar of Radford), in whose possession they are. See Mr.
Thelwall’s preface to the Key to Psalms.] a complete edition of the
whole 150 Psalms, which he called, “A Key to the Psalms,” thus
connecting it with the work published in 1825.

This law of Correspondence is seen in the Repetition of Subjects,
rather than of Lines, or Propositions.

These subjects may be repeated in three different ways, or rather
in two, for the third is only a combination of the other two. They may
be repeated alternately; or they may be introverted, when it is called
Chiasmus (and sometimes Epanodos); or these two may be combined
in innumerable ways.

Each of the subjects occupies a separate paragraph, and these we
call members. These members may be of any length; one may be
very short, the other quite long. A longer member may be again
divided up and expanded, as each member possesses its own
separate structure, and this again may be part of one still larger.

For the sake of convenience, we arbitrarily place letters against
each member for the purpose of distinguishing it from the others and
of linking it to its corresponding member, as well as for easy reference.
Using Roman and Italic type we are enabled to mark the different
subjects which correspond, or are set in contrast, the one with the
other

Thus the subject of the member marked “A” (Roman type) will be
the same subject which is repeated in A (Italic type). The same with В
and В, a and а, b and b.

In whatever form we may have this figure, it is always of the
greatest possible use and importance. It enables us not merely to
perceive the symmetrical perfection of the passage, but to understand
its true sense; to see its scope and thus be guided to a sound
interpretation.

What may be obscure in one member may be clear in its
corresponding member.

The subject, which may not be mentioned in one member may be
named in the other. We are thus helped to a correct interpretation. For
example, in the structure of 1Pe. 3:18-22 it is not clear who or what
may be “the in-prison-spirits” of verse 19. But in the corresponding
member (verse 22) they are mentioned by name as “angels.” We thus
learn that the subject of the former member (verse 19) is the
disobedience of angels in the days of Noah (Gen. 6:1-22), while the
subject of the latter (verse 22) is the subjection of angels and
authorities and powers. Having thus got the scope of the passage, we
get the meaning of “spirits,” and remember how it is written, “He
maketh His angels spirits” (Psa. 104:4. Heb. 1:7). We at once connect
their sin in the days of Noah and their prison with Gen. 6:1. 2Pe. 2:4,
and Jud. 1:6. We thus have the clue to the true interpretation of this
passage, which if followed out will lead to a correct exegesis.* [Note:
See a pamphlet on The Spirits in Prison, by the same author and
publisher.]

For another example see Psa. 144:1-15. (page 33), where the
structure (an extended alternation) clearly shows that verses 12-15
consist of the “vanity” which the “strange children” speak, and the
“falsehood” which they utter. The Psalm ends with a solemn
conclusion (15), which stands out apart from the structure by itself in
all its solemnity.

Psa. 144:1-15 -
А 1-4. Thanksgiving.
В 5-7. Prayer (“Bow thy heavens,” etc.).
C 8. Description of the strange children and their vain words: “Whose mouth,” etc.
А 9, 10. Thanksgiving.
В 11. Prayer (“Rid me”).
C 11-15. Description of the strange children. After ror “who” in verse 12 supply “say,” in italics,t [Note: See
under Ellipsis (page 33).] corresponding with “whose
mouth” in verse 8.

Then we have, in the concluding sentence, the true estimate of
happiness, and in what it consists, as opposed to the vain and false
estimate of the strange children:-

“Blessed the people whose God is Jehovah,” as is further set forth
in Psa. 4:6-7; Psa. 146:5.

The correspondence, here, corrects the common and popular
interpretation of this Psalm, and rescues it for the glory of God.

It is clear, therefore, from this, that the subject of Correspondence
cannot be too diligently studied, if we would discover some of the
wondrous perfections of the Word of God, or arrive at its proper
interpretation.

Correspondence may be thus arranged:
I. ALTERNATE.
1. Simple: where there are only two series, each consisting
of two members.
2. Extended: where there are two series, but each consisting
of several members.
3. Repeated: where there are more than two series:
a. consisting of two members each.
b. consisting of more than two members each.
II. INTROVERTED.
III. COMPLEX, or COMBINED, where there is a combination of
the other two.