148

Idioma; or, Idiom

The peculiar usage of Words and Phrases

Id-i-6’-ma. Greek, ἰδίωμα, a peculiarity, from ἴδιος (idios), one’s own,*
[Note: Hence ἰδιώτης (idi‘tees), our English idiot: 1.Θ., a private person,
as opposite to one, engaged in public affairs. Hence, a civilian as
opposed to a military man; a layman, as opposed to a cleric or lawyer;
an amateur, as opposed to a professional; a prose-writer, as opposed
to a poet; an ignorant person, as opposed to a learned person. Hence,
again, anyone unskilled or unpractised in any particular art or science;
the opposite of expert. Thus, as knowledge and learning became
more common, the term idiot came to be limited to one who is ignorant
and unable to understand much.] and ἰδιωτισμός (id-i-o-tis’-mos), the
common manner of speaking. Whence the Latin name for the figure
IDIOTISMUS. The English name for it is IDIOM.

The word is used in three significations:

(1) The language peculiar to the vulgar, as opposed to what is
classical.

(2) The language peculiar to one nation or tribe, as opposed to
other languages or dialects.

(3) The language peculiar to any particular author or speaker.

It is in the second of these senses that it becomes important as a
figure of speech.

The fact must ever be remembered that, while the language of the
New Testament is Greek, the agents and instruments employed by the
Holy Spirit were Hebrews. God spake “by the mouth of his holy
prophets.” Hence, while the “mouth” and the throat and vocal-chords
and breath were human, the words were Divine.

No one is able to understand the phenomenon; or explain how it
comes to pass: for Inspiration is a fact to be believed and received,
and not a matter to be reasoned about.

While therefore, the words are Greek, the thoughts and idioms are
Hebrew.

Some, on this account, have condemned the Greek of the New
Testament, because it is not classical; while others, in their anxiety to
defend it, have endeavoured to find parallel usages in classical Greek
authors.

Both might have spared their pains by recognising that the New
Testament Greek abounds with Hebraisms: i.e., expressions
conveying Hebrew usages and thoughts in Greek words.

It will be seen at once that this is a subject which has a large and
important bearing on the interpretation and clear understanding of
many passages in the New Testament.

Much is said in favour of a literal translation. But in many cases
this makes no sense whatever, and would sometimes make
nonsense. What is wanted is an idiomatic version: i.e., the exact
reproduction, not of the words, but of the thought and meaning of the
phrase. It is in this that the difference is seen between the Authorized
Version and the Revised. The former is a Version, while the latter is a
translation. Hence the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] is English, while the RV; often is not.

This refers to words as well as to phrases. To bring the matter
home, imagine an Englishman and an American translating from the
French:-Gare, the one would render “Station,” and the other “Depot”:
Wagon de marchandises would be in English “Goods-Truck”; and in
America, “Freight Car’: Bureau (de billets) would be “Booking Office”
and “Ticket Office” respectively; En Voiture would be, in English, “Take
your seats”: and in America, “All abroad.”

Fancy rendering Mont de pi't', literally mountain of piety, instead of
“pawn-shop”! or Commissionaire de pi't', literally Commissionaire of
Piety, instead of “Pawnbroker”! or Faire des chateux en Espagne,
literally to make castles in Spain instead of “to build castles in the air”!
Or Tomber dans Геаи, literally to fall into the water, instead of “to
fall to the ground,” or more colloquially “to fall through”!

On the other hand, what would a Frenchman understand if “How
do you do?” were rendered literally, instead of idiomatically: “How do
you carry yourself,”* [Note: Or the German: How goes it? wie gehts?]
or “the water of life,” Eau de vie! instead of “Eau vive.”

All this makes it perfectly clear that, unless the translation be
idiomatic, there must be grave mistakes made; and that, if a
translation be absolutely literal, it will be a fruitful source of errors.

The importance of this fact can hardly be over-rated; and,
considering the way in which many talk of, and insist on, a “literal”
translation, it is necessary to press the point and enforce it by
examples from the Scriptures.

Idiom, however, is not generally classed among Figures in the
technical sense of the word. But, as the words do not mean literally
what they say, and are not used or combined according to their literal
signification, they are really Figures; and we have, therefore, included
them here.

We will consider them under the following divisions: giving only a
few examples under each by way of illustration:-
I. Idiomatic usage of Verbs.
II. Special idiomatic usages of Nouns and Verbs.
III. Idiomatic Degrees of Comparison.
IV. Idiomatic use of Prepositions.
V. Idiomatic use of Numerals.
VI. Idiomatic forms of Quotation.
VII. Idiomatic forms of Question.
VΙΙI. Idiomatic Phrases.
IX. Idioms arising from other Figures of Speech.
X. Changes in usage of Words in the Greek language.
ΧΙ. Changes in usage of Words in the English language.