Erotesis; or, Interrogating

The Asking of Questions without waiting for the Answer

Er’-6-tee’-sis. Greek, ἐρώτησις, interrogation (from ἐρωτᾶν, to ask, to
enquire, to question: also to request).

This figure is used when a speaker or writer asks animated
questions, but not to obtain information. Instead of making a plain and
direct statement, he suddenly changes his style, and puts what he
was about to say or could otherwise have said, into the form of a
question, without waiting for an answer. Instead of declaring a
conviction, or expressing indignation, or vindicating authority, he puts
it in the form of a question without expecting any reply
The figure is so important that not only is it of frequent occurrence,
but it has several other names. It is called

PEUSIS (peu’-sis). Greek, πεῦσις, an asking, inquiry (from
πεύθοµα! (peuthomai): poetic present of πυνθάνοµαι (punthanomai),
to ask, inquire).

PYSMA (pys’-ma). Greek, πύσµα (pusma), what is learnt by the
interrogation (from the same root).

The Latins called it PERCONTATIO, an asking, inquiring after, and
INTERROGATIO, an interrogating.

While these names are all used of the act of interrogation, the
question itself is called EROTEMA (er’-o-tee-ma).

There are questions in the Hebrew which are not reproduced in
the English; and some are given below, though the labour of making
an exhaustive list would be too great.
But, counting the questions as they appear in the English Bible,
the importance of this figure Erotesis, or Interrogating, will be seen
when we state that, in the 1,189 chapters into which the Bible is
divided, there are no less than 3,298 questions. It is clear, therefore,
that it is impossible for us here to quote, or even to give, all the
references. Out of the 1,189 chapters of the Bible there are only 453
which are without a question.

These are divided as follows:-The 929 chapters of the Old
Testament contain 2,274 questions; while the 260 chapters of the New
Testament contain no less than 1,024. The average of questions in the
New Testament is much higher, per chapter, than that in the Old
Testament. For, while the average of the whole Bible is 2.75 ({6., 2%
questions for every chapter), the Old Testament average Isa. 2:3 (or
2&frac13;), and the New Testament nearly twice as much: viz., 3.9 (or
nearly 4).

This is how the Bible is affected as a whole. When we come to the
separate Books, we find that Job stands first with 329 questions; while
Jeremiah comes next with 195.

In the New Testament, the Gospel of Matthew stands first with 177
questions; then John’s Gospel with 167: etc.
When we come to separate chapters, Job. 38:1-41 stands first with
40 questions; then 2Sa. 19:1-43, with 22 questions. In the New
Testament, 1Co. 9:1-27 stands first, with 20 questions; followed
closely by Joh. 7:1-53, which has 19.

These facts are interesting, but are not important, as to the
chapters; inasmuch as these are only human in their origin, and are
often very incorrectly divided. As to the two Testaments and the
separate books, however, they serve to show us the relative
distribution of this beautiful figure Erotesis.

With regard to the questions themselves, their classification is
another matter altogether. Some are searching, causing the mind to
pause, wonder, and admire. Some are revelations of the attributes of
God, and of the depravity of man. The very first Divine question of the
Old Testament reveals the condition of man by nature: “WHERE ART
THOU?” It comes from God to the sinner, now “far off’ (Eph. 2:13),
from God. While the first question in the New Testament reveals the
effect of this on the sinner’s heart, causing him to turn to that Saviour
whom the New Testament reveals, and cry, “WHERE IS HE?”

The questions of the Bible, whether God addresses them to man;
or whether man turns to God; or whether he questions himself; contain
a mine of truth and teaching; while the heart is awakened, and the
attention is aroused to seek out the answer, which is ever fraught with
deep and blessed instruction.

We have only to reflect on the interesting fact that the figures used
most frequently by the Lord Jesus are Interrogation and Implication
(Erotesis and Hypocatastasis). The very first thing that is mentioned
concerning Him as the first act of His life, is that He was found “in the
temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and
asking them questions” (Luk. 2:46).

Doubtless He could teach them much that would astound them, by
the use of this Figure, in spite of the disparity of age. For a child of
twelve years of age may question, when he may not teach; and yet, by
this simple means, teach more effectively than the greatest of
teachers. No wonder that “all that heard him were astonished.”

All writers and speakers have always drawn largely on this Figure,
and many interesting examples might be given from general literature.
Science lifts its head against the word of God as though all were
uncertainty outside of its own proud boastings. And yet a few
questions soon prick and burst the bubble.

Scientia means real or intuitive knowledge, as does its Greek
representative γνῶσις (gndésis). (Hence our words “know” and
“knowledge”). Neither of these words means acquired knowledge. But
beyond a very few facts and the small circle of mathematical
demonstrations: How little is really known! What is matter? What is
mind? What is life? What is light? What is electricity? What is
gravitation? or, Is there any such thing at all? What is the history of our
own earth geologically? Who can tell us this? So long ago as 1806,
the French Institute tabulated more than eighty geological theories,
and how many have there been since then?

We merely give this as illustrating how we may ourselves, by a few
questions, dispose of the giants who would demolish us and rob us of
the Inspired Word of God, which comes to us in all its blessed and
Divine certainty.

We turn, then, to its questions; and our best course will be to
indicate certain divisions into which they may be classified; so that the
Bible-searching student may have somewhere to place the questions,
as he seeks them out and finds them.
Several classifications have been attempted by various writers
from Glassius downwards, and probably none is either correct or
complete. The subject is too large, and its divisions over-lap too much,
to allow of too minute an arrangement.

We might classify them under their subject matter, or under the
words with which they commence (“Who,” “How,” “Why,” “Whether,”
etc.).

If we used both these divisions they would get mixed up, and
many questions would appear in each. So that we present the
following, as embracing practically all the divisions into which the
questions of the Bible may be classified.

1. In positive affirmation.
2. In negative affirmation.
3. In affirmative negation.
4. In demonstration.
5. In wonder and admiration.
6. In rapture.
7. In wishes.
8. In refusals and denials.
9. In doubts.
10. In admonition.
11. In expostulation.
12. In prohibition or dissuasion.
13. In pity and commiseration.
14. In disparagement.
15. In reproaches.
16. In lamentation.
17. In indignation.
18. In absurdities and impossibilities.
19. Double questions.