3

Asyndeton; or, No-Ands

This figure should not be studied apart from the opposite figure
POLYSYNDETON (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), as they form a pair, and
mutually throw light upon and illustrate each other.

It is pronounced a-syn-de-ton, and means simply without
conjunctions; or it may be Englished by the term NO-ANDS.

It is from the Greek a, negative, and σύνδετον (sundeton), bound
together with (from δεῖν, dein, to bind).

Hence, in grammar, asyndeton means without any conjunctions.

It is called also ASYNTHETON, from τίθηµ! (titheemi), to put or
place. Hence, Asyntheton means no placings or puttings (i.e., of the
conjunction “and”).
Other names for this figure are:-
DIALYSIS (Di-al’-y-sis), from διά (dia), through, and λύειν
(luein), to loosen; a loosening through.
DIALYTON (Di-al’-y-ton), a separation of the parts.
SOLUTUM (So-lu-tum), from the Latin solvo, to dissolve.
DISSOLUTIO (Dis-so-lu’-ti-o), a dissolving.
EPITROCHASMOS (Ep --i-tro-chas‘-mos), from ἐτή (epi), upon,
and τροχαῖος (trochaios), a running along, tripping along.
This name is given also to a certain kind of Parenthesis
(q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
PERCURSIO (Per-cur’-si-o), a running through.
All these names are given, because, without any “ands” the items
are soon run over.
When the figure Asyndeton is used, we are not detained over the
separate statements, and asked to consider each in detail, but we are
hurried on over the various matters that are mentioned, as though
they were of no account, in comparison with the great climax to which
they lead up, and which alone we are thus asked by this figure to
emphasize.

The beauties of Asyndeton cannot be fully seen or appreciated
without comparing with it the figure of Polysyndeton. They should be
studied together, in order to bring out, by the wonderful contrast, the
object and importance of both.

Asyndeta have been divided into four classes:-

Conjunctive or copulative, when the words or propositions are
to be joined together.

Disjunctive, when they are to be separated from each other.

Explanatory, when they explain each other.

Causal, when a reason is subjoined.