43

Paronomasia; or, Rhyming-Words

The Repetition of Words similar in Sound, but not necessarily in
Sense

Par-o-no-ma‘-si-a, from παρά (para) beside, and ὄνομαζειν
(onomazein) to name, make a name, or a word. The figure is so-called
because one word is placed alongside of another, which sounds and
seems like a repetition of it. But it is not the same; it is only similar.
The meaning may be similar or not, the point is that two (or more)
words are different in origin and meaning, but are similar in sound or
appearance.

Some rhetoricians misname this figure Prosonomasia, others
include it in Antanaclasis or Parechesis.

The Latins called it ANNOMINATIO, or AGNOMINATIO, from ad,
to, and nominatio, a naming (from nominare, to name). The word thus
has the same meaning as the Greek name.

This figure is not by any means what we call a pun. Far from it. But
two things are emphasized, and our attention is called to this
emphasis by the similarity of sound. Otherwise, we might read the
passage, and pass it by unnoticed; but the eye or the ear is at once
attracted by the similarity of sound or appearance, and our attention is
thus drawn to a solemn or important statement which would otherwise
have been unheeded. Sometimes a great lesson is taught us by this
figure; an interpretation is put upon the one word by the use of the
other; or a reason is given in the one for what is referred to by the
other. Sometimes a contrast is made; sometimes a thought is added.
The figure is very frequently used and is never to be disregarded.
This figure is common to all languages, but the instances cannot
readily be translated from one language into another. In some cases
we have attempted to express the Hebrew or Greek words by the use
of similar words in English; but this is generally at the sacrifice of exact
translation. Only by a very free translation of the sentence can the two
words be thus represented.

Sometimes we have found even this to be impossible: but in each
case we have given the original words in English characters, so that
the similarity of sound may be perceived. We have not in each case
stopped to point the lesson taught by the figure, as it is generally
sufficiently plain and clear.

Neither have we made any classification of the passages,
otherwise they might well be divided into those which are connected
with proper names, or prophetic denunciations, etc. Or we might have
classified them as (1) synonymous; (2) antithetic; and (3) of varied
signification.