Figures Involving Omission
|. AFFECTING WORDS
Ellipsis
El-lip’-sis. This is the Greek word ἔλλειψις, a leaving in, from ἐν (en)
in, and λείπειν (leipein) to leave.

'The figure is so called, because some gap is /eft in the sentence,
which means that a word or words are /eft out or omitted. The English
name of the figure would therefore be Omission.

The figure is a peculiar form given to a passage when a word or
words are omitted; words which are necessary for the grammar, but
are not necessary for the sense.

The laws of geometry declare that there must be at least three
straight lines to enclose a space. So the laws of syntax declare that
there must be at least three words to make complete sense, or the
simplest complete sentence. These three words are variously named
by grammarians. In the sentence “Thy word is truth,” “Thy word” is the
subject spoken of, “truth” is what is said of it (the predicate), and the
verb “is” (the copula) connects it.

But any of these three may be dispensed with; and this law of
syntax may be legitimately broken by Ellipsis.

The omission arises not from want of thought, or lack of care, or
from accident, but from design, in order that we may not stop to think
of, or lay stress on, the word omitted, but may dwell on the other
words which are thus emphasised by the omission. For instance, in
Mat. 14:19, we read that the Lord Jesus “gave the loaves to His
disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.”

There is no sense in the latter sentence, which is incomplete, “the
disciples to the multitude,” because there is no verb. The verb “gave”
is omitted by the figure of Ellipsis for some purpose. If we read the last
sentence as it stands, it reads as though Jesus gave the disciples to
the multitude!

This at once serves to arrest our attention; it causes us to note the
figure employed; we observe the emphasis; we learn the intended
lesson. What is it? Why, this; we are asked to dwell on the fact that the
disciples gave the bread, but only instrumentally, not really. The Lord
Jesus Himself was the alone Giver of that bread. Our thoughts are
thus, at once, centred on Him and not on the disciples.

These Ellipses are variously dealt with in the English Versions
(both Authorized and Revised). In many cases they are correctly
supplied by italics. In some cases the sentences are very erroneously
completed. Sometimes an Ellipsis in the Text is not seen, and
therefore is not taken into account in the Translation. Sometimes an
Ellipsis is imagined and supplied where none really exists in the
original.

Where an Ellipsis is wrongly supplied, or not supplied at all, the
words of the Text have to be very freely translated in order to make
sense, and their literal meaning is sometimes widely departed from.

But on the other hand, where we correctly supply the Ellipsis-one
word, it may be-it at once enables us to take all the other words of the
passage in their literal signification. This is in itself an enormous gain,
to say nothing of the wonderful light that may be thus thrown upon the
Scripture.

These Ellipses must not be arbitrarily supplied according to our
own individual views; we are not at liberty to insert any words,
according to our own fancies: but they are all scientifically arranged
and classified, and each must therefore be filled up, according to
definite principles which are well ascertained, and in obedience to
laws which are carefully laid down.
Ellipsis is of three kinds:-
Absolute Ellipsis,
Relative Ellipsis, and the
Ellipsis of Repetition:-
A. Absolute, where the omitted word or words are to be
supplied from the nature of the subject alone.

B. Relative, where the omitted word or words are to be
supplied from, and are suggested by the context.

C. The Ellipsis of Repetition, where the omitted word or words
are to be supplied by repeating them from a clause which
precedes or follows.

These three great divisions may be further set forth as follows:-
A. Absolute Ellipsis, where the omitted word or words are to be
supplied from the nature of the subject.

I. Nouns and Pronouns.

1. The Nominative.

2. The Accusative.

3. Pronouns.

4. Other connected words.
Il. Verbs and Participles:-
1. When the verb finite is wanting:
a. especially the verb to say.
2. When the verb infinitive is wanting:
a. after МЛЙ fo be able.
b. after the verb fo finish.
c. after another verb, personal or impersonal.
3. When the verb substantive is wanting.
4. When the participle is wanting.
Ill. Certain connected words in the same member of a
passage.
IV. A whole clause in a connected passage:-
1. The first clause.
2. The latter clause or Apodosis (Anantapodoton).
3. Acomparison.
B. Relative Ellipsis-

|. Where the omitted word is to be supplied from a cognate
word in the context.

1. The noun from the verb.
2. The verb from the noun.

Il. Where the omitted word is to be supplied from a contrary
word.

Ill. Where the omitted word is to be supplied from analogous or
related words.

IV. Where the omitted word is contained in another word: the
one word comprising the two significations-(Concisa
Locutio, Syntheton or Compositio, Constructio Preegnans).

C. Ellipsis of Repetition-

[В Simple: where the Ellipsis is to be supplied from a

preceding or a succeeding clause.
1. From a preceding clause.
a. Nouns and Pronouns.
b. Verbs.
c. Particles.
i) Negatives.
ii) Interrogatives.
d. Sentences.
2. From a succeeding clause.

Il. Complex: where the two clauses are mutually involved, and
the Ellipsis in the former clause is to be supplied from the
latter, and at the same time an Ellipsis in the latter clause is
to be supplied from the former. (Called also Semiduplex
Oratio).

1. Single words.
2. Sentences.
A. Absolute Ellipsis:
That is, the omission of words or terms which must be supplied only
from the nature of the subject. The omitted word may be a noun,
adjective, pronoun, verb, participle, adverb, preposition.
|. The Omission of Nouns and Pronouns
1. The Omission of the Nominative

Gen. 14:19-20.-Melchizedek said to Abram, “Blessed be the most
high God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thine hand. And he
[18., Abram] gave him tithes of all.”

From the context, as well as from Heb. 7:4, it is clear that it was
Abram who gave the tithes to Melchizedek, and not Melchizedek to
Abram.

Gen. 39:6.-“And he left all that he had in Joseph’s hand; and he knew
not ought he had, save the bread Which he did eat. And Joseph was a
goodly person, and well-favoured.”

Here it is not at all clear which it was of the two who “knew not
ought he had.” If we understand Potiphar, it is difficult to see how he
only knew the bread he ate: or if Joseph, it is difficult to understand
how he knew not ought he had.

If the Ellipsis, however, is rightly supplied, it makes it all clear.

The verse may be rendered, and the Ellipsis supplied as follows:-
“And he [Potiphar] left all that he had in Joseph’s hand: and he
[Potiphar] knew not anything save the bread which he was eating. And
Joseph was beautiful of figure, and beautiful of appearance.”
All difficulty is removed when we remember that “the Egyptians
might not eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination unto
the Egyptians” (43:32). Everything, therefore, was committed by
Potiphar to Joseph’s care, except that which pertained to the matter of
food.
2Sa. 3:7.-“And Saul had a concubine, whose name was Rizpah, the
daughter of Aiah, and ... said to Abner, Wherefore, etc.”

Here it is clear from the Sense of the next verse and 2Sa. 21:8 that
“Ishbosheth’ is the word to be supplied, as is done in italics.
2Sa. 23:20.-“He slew two lionlike men of Moab.”

The Massorah points out* [Note: Ginsburg’s Edition, Vol. i., p. 106.]
that the word Ariel occurs three times, in this passage and Isa. 29:1.
In Isa. the word is twice transliterated as a proper name, while in 2Sa.
23:20, margin, it is translated lions of God: the first part of the word
alun (агее) a lion, and the second part AM (ϱ) God. But if we keep
it uniformly and consistently as a proper name we have with the
Ellipsis of the accusative (sons) the following sense: “He slew the two
sons of Ariel of Moab.”
2Sa. 24:1.-“And again the anger of the Lord was kindled against
Israel, and he moved David against them to say, Go, number Israel
and Judah.”

Here the nominative to the verb “moved” is wanting. Someone
moved, and who that was we learn from 1Ch. 21:1, from which it is
clear that the word Satan or the Adversary is to be supplied, as is
done in the margin:-“And again the anger of the Lord was kindled
against Israel, and [the Adversary] moved David against them to say,
Go, number Israel and Judah.”
1Ch. 6:28 (12).-“And the sons of Samuel; the firstborn Vashni (marg.
[Note: arg. Margin.] , called also Joel, ver. 33 and 1Sa. 8:2) and
Abiah.”

Here there is an Ellipsis of the name of the firstborn: while the
word θμιρῆ, Vashni, when otherwise pointed (CLUB) means “and
the second”! so that the verse reads,

“And the sons of Samuel; the firstborn [Joe/] and the second
Abiah.” This agrees with the Syriac Version. The R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] correctly supplies the Ellipsis, and translates
vashni “and the second.”

“Joel” is supplied from ver. 33 (see also 1Sa. 8:2, and the note in
Ginsburg’s edition of the Hebrew Bible).
Psa. 34:17.-“[They] cry, and the Lord heareth, and delivereth them out
of all their troubles.”

The immediate subject in ver. 16 is evildoers. But it is not these
who cry. It is the righteous. Hence the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and the R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] supply the words “the righteous”
in italics. The nominative is omitted, in order that our attention may be
fixed not on their persons or their characters, but upon their cry, and
the Lord’s gracious answer.

The same design is seen in all similar cases.

Psa. 105:40.-“[They] asked, and he brought quails,” i.e., the People
asked. The nominative is supplied in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] But the R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] translates it literally “They asked.”
Pro. 22:27.-“If thou hast nothing to pay, why should one [i.e., the
creditor] take away thy bed from under thee?”

Isa. 26:1.-“In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah; we
have a strong city; salvation will one [i.e. God] appoint for walls and
bulwarks.”
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] interprets by supplying the nominative. The R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] translates it literally.
Jer. 51:19.-“He is the former of all things, and /srael is the rod of his
inheritance.”

Here both the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] supply the Ellipsis from 10:16. Had it been supplied from the
immediate context, it would have come under the head of Relative
Ellipsis, or that of Repetition.

Eze. 46:12.-“Now when the Prince shall prepare a voluntary offering
or peace offerings voluntarily unto the Lord, one shall then open him
the gate that looketh toward the East, &c.,” ie., ДЩТШ the gate-
keeper (supplied from the noun ДЩТШ, the gate), which follows,
shall open the gate.

Zec. 7:2.-“When they (Heb. he) had sent unto the house of God,
Sherezer and Regem-melech and their men, to pray before the Lord”
[18., when the people who had returned to Judea had sent].

Mat. 16:22.-“Be it far from Thee, Lord.”

Here the Ellipsis in the Greek is destroyed by the translation. The
Greek reads, “IAcewc¢ σοι, κύριε” (hileds soi, kyrie), which is
untranslatable literally, unless we supply the Ellipsis of the Nominative,
thus: “[God be] merciful to Thee, Lord!” Thus it is in the Septuagint
1Ch. 11:19, where it is rendered “God forbid that | should do this
thing,” but it ought to be, “[Соа] be merciful to me [to keep me from
doing] this thing.”

Act. 13:29.-“And when they had fulfilled all that was written, of him,
they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a sepulchre,” {6.,
Joseph of Arimathaea and Nicodemus took him down. But it is the act
which we are to think of here rather than the persons who did it.
Hence the Ellipsis.

1Со. 15:25.-“For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his
feet,” {6., “he [the Son] must reign, until he [the Son] shall have put all
things under his [the Son’s] feet.” Here the subjection refers to the
period of Christ's personal reign.

This is one of the seven New Testament references to Psa. 110:1,
“Jehovah said unto Adon-Sit thou at my right hand, until | make thine
enemies thy footstool.” The English word “make” occurs 1,111 times in
the Old Testament, as the rendering of 49 Hebrew words. The one so
rendered here is Lb (Sheeth) and means to put, place, set, or
appoint, and is rendered make only 19 times out of 94. Its proper
meaning is put or appoint. (See Gen. 3:15; Gen. 4:25; Gen. 30:40.
Psa. 140:5. Isa. 26:1, &c.)
The word in the N. Т. is τίθηµι (titheemi), and has the same
meaning. It is rendered make only 10 times out of 91, but in these
cases it means to set or appoint (Act. 20:28. Rom. 4:17, &c.). In every
case the verb is in the second aorist subjunctive, and should be
rendered “shall have put.”

Six of the seven references (Mat. 22:44. Mar. 12:36. Luk. 20:42.
Act. 2:34. Heb. 1:13; Heb. 10:13) refer to Christ’s session on the
Father’s throne (not to His reign upon His own, Rev. 3:21). And this
session will continue until such time as the Father shall have placed
Christ's enemies as a footstool for His feet. When that shall have been
done, He will rise up from His seat and come forth into the air for His
people, to receive them to Himself, and take them up to meet Him in
the air so to be ever with the Lord. Then He will come unto the earth
with them, and sit upon the throne of His glory, and reign until He shall
have put all enemies under His feet. The other six passages refer to
Christ's session. This one refers to His reign upon His own throne (not
to His session on His Father’s throne, Rev. 3:21). And this reign will
continue until He (Christ) hath put all His enemies under His feet.
Note, that in the six passages His enemies are placed “as a
footstool for His feet,” and there is not a word about their being under
His feet. In the one passage (1Co. 15:25) there is not a word about
being placed “as a footstool,” but the word “under” His feet is used.
We must distinguish between placing and making, and Christ's
session and His reign. Then all these passages teach the Pre-
Millennial and Pre-Tribulation coming of Christ for His people before
His coming with them.* [Note: See Things to Come for October, 1898.]
1Со. 15:53.-“For this corruptible [body] must put оп incorruption, and
this mortal [body] must put on immortality.”

The noun “body” must also be supplied in the next verse.

Eph. 1:8.-“Wherein he hath abounded towards us in all wisdom and
prudence.”

It is not “wherein,” but ἧς (hees) which, ie., “[the knowledge] or
grace, which he hath made to abound in us in all wisdom and
prudence.”

Tit. 1:15.-“Unto the pure all things are pure.”

The noun “meats” (i.e., foods) must be supplied as in 1Co. 6:12.

“All [meats] indeed are clean to the clean.” The word “clean” being
used in its ceremonial or Levitical sense, for none can be otherwise
either “pure” or “clean.”

Heb. 11:1.-“Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of
divine service.” Here the word covenant is properly supplied in italics.
2Pe. 3:1.-“This second epistle, beloved, | now write unto you; in both
which | stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance,” i.e., “In both
which [epistles] | stir up,” etc.

1Jn. 5:16.-“If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto
death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life, etc.,” i.e., “[God] shall
give him life.” See also Mat. 5:11; Mat. 5:15; Luk. 6:38, where men
must be the word supplied.

2. The Omission of the Object or Accusative, etc., after the verb
2Sa. 6:6.-“And when they came to Nachon’s threshing-floor, Uzzah
put forth his hand to the ark of God.”

Here the omission is supplied. The Ellipsis is used, and the
accusative is omitted, in order to call our attention to the act, rather
than to the manner of it.
1Ch. 16:7.-“Then on that day, David delivered first this psalm to thank
the Lord, etc.”

The Ellipsis might also be supplied thus: “David delivered first [the
following words] to thank the Lord, etc.”

Job. 24:6.-“They reap everyone his corn in the field.”

This hardly makes sense with the context, which describes the
wicked doings of those who know not God.

The question is whether the word Omime (beleel6) translated
“his corn” is to be taken as one word, or whether it is to be read as two
words Omi ме (belee 16) which mean not their own. In this case
there is the Ellipsis of the accusative, which must be supplied. The
whole verse will then read,

“They reap [their corn] in a field not their own:

They glean the vintage of the wicked,”
which carries on the thought of the passage without a break in the
argument.

If we read it as one word, then we must supply the Ellipsis
differently:-“They reap their corn in a field [not their own],” so that it
comes, in sense, to the same thing.

Psa. 21:12 (13).-“When thou shalt make ready thine arrows upon thy
strings.”

Psa. 44:10 (11).-“They which hate us spoil for themselves.”

The word spoil is μισῃ (shahsah), and means to plunder. And it
is clear that the accusative, which is omitted, should be
supplied:-“They which hate us plunder [our goods] for themselves.”
The emphasis being, of course, on the act and the motive in the verb
“plunder,” and “for themselves,” rather than on the goods which they
plunder.
In verse 12 (13), both the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or

current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] have supplied the accusative, “thy wealth.”
Psa. 57:2 (3).-“I will cry unto God most high; unto God that performeth
all things for me.” Here the object is supplied in the words “all things.”
Other translators suggest “His mercy,” “His promises,” “my desires.”
Luther has “my sorrow,” the Hebrew being BOLL! (gamar), to bring to
an end, complete, etc. The Ellipsis is left for emphasis. Nothing is
particularised, so that we may supply everything. The mention of any
one thing necessarily excludes others.

In Psa. 138:8 we have the same verb (though with a different

construction) and the same Ellipsis: but the former is translated “the
Lord will perfect,” and the latter is supplied “that which concerneth
me”: i.e., will consummate all consummations for me.
Psa. 94:10.-“He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct [you
among the heathen)?” This is evidently the completion of the sense.
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] fills up the Ellipsis in the next sentence. This is of a
different character, and comes under another division: “He that
teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know?”
Psa. 103:9.-“Neither will he keep his anger for ever.” So in Nah. 1:2;
Jer. 3:5; Jer. 3:12.

Psa. 137:5.-‘If | forget thee, О Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her
cunning.”

Here both versions thus supply the accusative. But surely more is
implied in the Ellipsis than mere skill of workmanship. Surely it means,
“If | forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget me.” Let it forget
to work for me, to feed me and to defend me, if | forget to pray for thee
and to defend thee.

Pro. 24:24.-“He that saith unto the wicked, Thou art righteous; him
shall the people curse, nations shall abhor him;” i.e., “He that saith to
the wicked [king].” This is clear from the context.

Verses 21-25 read literally. “Fear the Lord, O my son, and the king.
With men that make a difference (Lupa, shanah see Est. 1:7; Est.
3:8), between a king and an ordinary man thou shalt not mingle
thyself. For their calamity (whose? evidently that of two persons, viz.,
that of the king and also of the common man) shall rise suddenly; and
who knoweth the ruin of them both? These matters also belong to the
wise.” To make no difference between man and man belongs to
everyone alike, see Deu. 1:17; but to make no difference between a
man and a king is a matter that pertains only to the wise. “/t is not
good to have respect of persons in judgment. He that saith to the
wicked [king, as well as common man], Thou art righteous; him shall
the people curse, nations shall abhor him; but to them that rebuke him
(i.e., the wicked king) shall be delight, and a good blessing shall come
upon them.”
Here there is accuracy of translation and consistency of
interpretation. There is only one subject in verses 21-25.* [Note: Each
“proverb” or paragraph in the book of Proverbs is occupied with only
one subject, even if it consists of several verses. This may sometimes
throw light on a passage, e.g., Pro. 26:3-5, where verses 4 and 5
follow up the subject of verse 3, not changing the subject but enforcing
it; i.e., “For the horse a whip, for the ass a bridle, and for the fool’s
back a rod.” In other words you cannot reason with a horse or an ass,
neither can you reason with a fool. Then follow two very finely stated
facts, not commands. If you answer him according to his folly, he will
think you are a fool like himself, and if you answer him not according
to his folly, he will think that he is wise like yourself! So that we have a
kind of hypothetical command:

Do this, and you will see that;

Do that, and you will see, &c.] Here it is the command not to flatter
a wicked king; and this explains the word “both” in verse 22, and the
reference to “people” and “nations” in verse 24. Unless the Ellipsis is
thus supplied, the meaning is not clear.

That which is a true admonition as to kingcraft, is also a solemn
warning as to priestcraft. The “wise” makes no difference between a
so-called priest and another man; for he knows that all the people of
God are made “priests unto God” (Rev. 1:6), and “an holy priest-hood”
(1Ре. 2:5). Those who make a difference do so to their own loss, and
to the dishonour of Christ.

Isa. 53:12.-“Therefore will | divide him a portion with the great, and he
shall divide the spoil with the strong”; i.e., “Therefore will | [Jehovah]
divide (or apportion) to him a great multitude [for booty], and the
strong ones will he (i.e., Messiah) divide as spoil.”

The structure shows that 53:12 corresponds with, and is to be
explained by 52:15. The passage is concerning:-

Jehovah's Servant-the Sin Offering.

А 52:13. His Presentation.

В 14. His Affliction.
C 15. His Reward.
&А 53:1-3. His Reception.
В 4-10. His Affliction.
© 10-12. His Reward.

Hence the “many nations” of 52:15, answer to the “great
multitudes” of 53:12; and “the kings” of 52:15 answer to “the strong
ones” of 53:12. Thus the two passages explain each other. The first
line of verse 12 is what Jehovah divides to His Servant; and the
second line is what He divides as Victor for Himself and His host.
Compare Psa. 110:2-5, Rev. 19:11-16.

The word PK] (nazah) in 52:15, means to leap, leap out: of

liquids, to spurt out as blood: of people, to leap up from joy or
astonishment. So the astonishment of verse 15 answers to that of
verse 14. Moreover the verb is in the Hiphil, and means to cause
astonishment.* [Note: See Things to Come, August, 1898.]
Jer. 16:7.-“Neither shall men tear themselves for them in mourning.”
The word tear is ᾧμιο (paras) to break, cleave, divide. So that the
Ellipsis will be, “Neither shall men break [bread] for them in mourning”
(as Eze. 24:17, Hos. 9:4, etc., and A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.]
and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).

See under Idiom.

Jer. 8:4.-“Thus saith the Lord, Shall they fall, and not arise? Shall he
turn away and not return?”

This is unintelligible, and the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] is no clearer:-“Shall one turn away and not turn again?”
The fact is that the Massorah* [Note: See note on this passage in
Ginsburg’s Edition of the Hebrew Bible.] calls attention to this
passage as one of several examples where two connected words are
wrongly divided. Here, the first letter of the second of these two words
should be the last letter of the preceding word. Then the sense comes
out most beautifully:

“Shall they return [fo the Lord]
And He not return [to them]?”

Agreeing with Mal. 3:7, and with the context; and bringing out the
parallel between the two lines as well as exhibiting more clearly the
figure of Polyptoton (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.])

Mat. 11:18.-“John came neither eating nor drinking.”

Clearly there must be an Ellipsis here; for John, being human,
could not live without food. The sense is clear in the Hebrew idiom,
which requires the Ellipsis to be thus supplied in the English:-

“John came neither eating [with others] nor drinking [strong drink].”
See Luk. 1:15. Or, observing the force of the Greek negative: “John
came [declining invitations] to eat and drink.”
Luk. 9:52.-“And sent messengers before his face; and they went,
and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready ... for
him,” i.e., to prepare reception for him.

Joh. 15:6.-“If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch,
and is withered; and men gather them and cast them into the fire, and
they are burned.”

Here the accusative “them” is not repeated.

But the meaning of the verse is obscured, or rather a new meaning
is read into it by inconsistency of rendering. Why, we ask, are the
words ἐὰν µή (ean mee) translated “except” twice in verse 4, and here
in verse 6 “if ... not’? It is an expression that occurs fifty-two times,
and more than thirty of these are rendered “except.”t [Note: See Mat.
5:20; Mat. 12:29; Mat. 18:3; Mat. 26:42. Mar. 3:27; Mar. 7:3-4. Joh.
3:2-3; Joh. 3:5; Joh. 3:27; Joh. 4:48; Joh. 6:44; Joh. 6:53; Joh. 6:65;
Joh. 12:24; Joh. 15:4 (twice); 20:25. Act. 8:31; Act. 15:1; Act. 27:31.
Rom. 10:15. 10ο. 14:6-7; 10ο. 14:9; 1Co. 15:36. 2Th. 2:3. 2Ti. 2:5.
Rev. 2:5; Rev. 2:22. yi (ei mee), if not, is also rendered “except” Mat.
19:9; Mat. 24:22. Mar. 13:20. Joh. 19:11. Rom. 7:7; Rom. 9:29. 2Co.
12:13.] Here it should be rendered “Except anyone abide in me.” In
the preceding verses the Lord had been speaking of His disciples
“you” and “ye.” Here in verse 6 He makes a general proposition
concerning anyone. Not, if anyone who is already in Him does not
continue in Him, for He is not speaking of a real branch; but except
anyone is abiding in Him he is cast forth “AS a branch.”

Likewise, in verse 2, the verb is αἴρω (8/6) to lift up, * [Note: As in
Luk. 17:13. Joh. 11:41. Act. 4:24. Rev. 10:5.] raise up. “Every branch
in me that beareth not fruit he lifteth up,” ie., He raises it from the
ground where it can bear no fruit, and tends it, that it may bring forth
fruit, “and every branch that beareth fruit, he pruneth it, that it may
bring forth more fruit.”

Thus there are two conditions spoken of-two kinds of branches:
one that bears no fruit, and one that does. The former He raises up
that it may bear fruit, and the latter He prunes that it may bear more.
Act. 9:34.-“Arise, and make thy bed.”

Here both versions translate the figure. The Greek reads, “Arise,
and spread for thyself,” /.e., spread [a bed] for thyself: in other words,
“make thy bed.”

Act. 10:10.-“But while they made ready, he fell into a trance,” i.e.,
while they made ready [the food].
Rom. 15:28.-“When therefore | have performed this, and have sealed
to them this fruit, | will come by you into Spain”: i.e., “When, therefore,
| have performed this business.”

1Со. 3:1.-“And |, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual
[men], but as unto carnal [men].” (See under 1Co. 2:2).

1Co. 7:17.-“But as God hath distributed to every man.”

This is literally:-“Only as God hath apportioned [the giff] to each.”
1Co. 10:24.-“Let no man seek his own [advantage only], but every
man that of his neighbour [a/so].”

“Wealth,” in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] is the old English word for well-being
generally. As we pray in the Litany, “In all time of our wealth”; and in
the expression, “Commonwealth,” i.e., common weal. Compare verse
33, where the word “profit” is used. The Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] supplies “good.”
2Co. 5:16.-“Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh
(κατὰ σάρκα, kata sarka, according to flesh, i.e., according to natural
standing): yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now,
henceforth know we him [thus] no more.”
Our standing is now a spiritual one, “in Christ” risen from the dead;
a standing on resurrection ground, as the members of the Mystical or
Spiritual Body of Christ.
2Co. 5:20.-“Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God
did beseech you by us: we pray you in Christ’s stead, be ye reconciled
to God.”

Here the word “you” is incorrectly supplied. Paul was not
beseeching the saints in Corinth to be reconciled to God. They were
reconciled as verse 18 declares, “Who hath reconciled us to himself
by Jesus Christ.” Then in verse 19 he goes on to speak of “men”; and
in verse 20 he says that he beseeches them, as though God did
beseech them by us; we pray them in Christ's stead, and say:-“Be ye
reconciled to God.” This was the tenor of his Gospel to the
unconverted.
2Co. 11:20.-“If a man take [your goods].”

Php. 3:13.-“Brethren, | count not myself to have apprehended [the
prize (from verse 14)].”

1Th. 3:1.-“When we could no longer forbear.” Here στέγω (stegd)
means {ο hold out, to bear, to endure, and must have the accusative
supplied:-“Wherefore, when we could no longer bear [our anxiety],
etc.” The same Ellipsis occurs in verse 5, where it must be similarly
supplied.

2Th. 2:6-7.-“And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be
revealed in his time. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only
he who now letteth will /et, until he be taken out of the way.”

Here, there is an Ellipsis. But the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] treats it as though
it were the verb that is omitted, and repeats the verb “will let.” The R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] avoids this, by translating it
thus:-“only there is one that restraineth now, until, etc.”

Both the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] fail
to see that it is the Ellipsis of the accusative after the verb in both
verses. The verb is κατέχω (katechd), which is rendered “withhold” in
verse 6 and “/ef’ in verse 7 (and in Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] “restrain” in both verses). But this verb, being transitive, must
have an object or accusative case after it; and, as it is omitted by
Ellipsis, it has therefore to be supplied.
The verb κατέχω (katech6) means to have and hold fast. The
preposition κατά (kata), in composition, does not necessarily preserve
its meaning of down, to hold down; but it may be intensive, and mean
to hold firmly, to hold fast, to hold in secure possession. This is proved
by its usage; which clearly shows that restraining or withholding is no
necessary part of its meaning. It occurs nineteen times, and is
nowhere else so rendered. On the other hand there are four or five
other words which might have been better used had “restrain” been
the thought in this passage.

Indeed its true meaning is fixed by its use in these epistles. In 1Th.
5:21 we read “hold fast that which is good,” not restrain it or “withhold”
that which is good! But the idea is of keeping and retaining and
holding on fast to that which is proved to be good. So it is in all the
passages where the word occurs:-

Mat. 21:38. Let us seize on his inheritance.

Luk. 4:42. And stayed him, that he should not depart.

Luk. 8:15. Having heard the word, keep it.

Luk. 14:9. Thou begin with shame {ο take the lowest room.
Joh. 5:4. Of whatsoever disease he had (i.e., was held).

Act. 27:40. And made toward shore (i.e., they held their
course, or kept going for the shore).

Rom. 1:18. Who hold the truth in unrighteousness.

Rom. 7:6. Being dead to that wherein we were held (margin
and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).

10ο. 7:30. As though they possessed not.

10ο. 11:2. And keep the ordinances.

10ο. 15:2. If ye keep in memory what | preached.

2Co. 6:10. And yet possessing all things.

1Th. 5:21. Hold fast that which is good.

Phm. 1:13. Whom | would have retained with me.

Heb. 3:6. If we hold fast the confidence.

Heb. 3:14. If we hold the beginning
Heb. 10:23. Let us hold fast the profession.

This fixes for us the meaning of the verb κατέχω. But what is it that
thus holds fast “the man of sin’? and who is it that holds fast
something which is not mentioned, and which has therefore to be
supplied? For, in verse 6, that which holds fast is neuter, τὸ KaTéxov
(to katechon), while in verse 7 it is masculine © κατέχων (ho
katech6n):so that in verse 6 it is something (neuter) which holds the
man of sin fast, while in verse 7 some one is holding fast to
something.

We submit that in verse 6, that something is τὸ φρέαρ (to phrear)
the pit (Rev. 9:1-2; Rev. 11:7) out of which he ascends, and in which
he is now kept in sure possession until the season arrive when he is to
be openly revealed: meanwhile, his secret counsels and plans are
already working, preparing the way for his revelation.

The whole subject of the context is the revelation of two person-
ages (not of one), viz., “the man of sin” (verse 3) and “the lawless one”
(verse 8). These correspond with the two beasts of Rev. 13:1-18

This is clear from the structure of the first twelve verses of this
chapter:-* [Note: See The Structure of the Two Epistles to the
Thessalonians by the same author and publisher.]
2Th. 2:1-12.
А 1-3-. Exhortation not to be believing what the apostle did not
say.
В -3, 4. Reason. “For, etc.”
Α 5,6. Exhortation to believe what the apostle did say.
В 7-12. Reason. “For, etc.”
Or more fully, thus:-
А 1-3-. Exhortation (negative).
В а -3-. The Apostasy (open).
Ь -3. The Revelation of the “Man of Sin.” (The Beast
from the Sea, Rev. 13:1-10).
ο 4. The character of his acts. See Rev. 13:6-8.
Α 5-6. Exhortation (positive).
В а 7.Lawlessness (secret working).
Ь — 8. The Revelation of the Lawless one. (The Beast
from the Earth, Rev. 13:11-18).
c 9-12. The character of his acts. See Rev.
13:13-15.

Thus the open working Of the apostasy and the secret working of
the counsels of the Lawless one are set in contrast. We must note that
the word “mystery” means a secret, a secret plan or purpose, secret
counsel.* [Note: See The Mystery, by the same author and publisher.]

Thus we have here two subjects: (1) “The Man of Sin” (the beast
from the sea, Rev. 13:1-10), and the open apostasy which precedes
and marks his revelation; (2) “The Lawless one” (the beast from the
earth, Rev. 13:11-18), and the working of his secret counsels which
precedes his revelation, and the ejection of the Devil from the heavens
which brings it about.

An attempt has been made to translate the words, ἐκ μέσου
γένηται (ek mesou geneetai) be taken out of the way, as meaning,
“arise out of the midst.” But this translates an idiomatic expression
literally; which cannot be done without introducing error. ἐκ µέσου
γένηται is an idiom,t [Note: See below under the figure Idioma.] for
being gone away, or being absent or away.

This is clear from the other places where the idiomatic expression
occurs.} [Note: in Mat. 13:49, the wicked are severed from among the
just’ (1.е., taken away). In Act. 17:33, “Paul departed from among
them” (1.е., went away). In 23:10, he was taken “by force from among
them” (1.е., taken out of the way). 1Co. 5:2 is very clear, where he
complains that they had not mourned that “he that hath done this thing
might be taken away from among you.” In 2Co. 6:17, we are
commanded, “Wherefore come out from among them and be ye
separate.” In Col. 2:14 we read of the handwriting of ordinances which
was against us; Christ “took it out of the way.” We have the same in
the Septuagint in Isa. 52:11 : “Depart ye.... go ye out of the midst of
her,” and Isa. 57:1 : “the righteous is taken away from the evil to
come.”

The same usage is seen in Classical writers-Plutarch (Timol. p.
288, 3): “He determined to live by himself, having got himself out of
the way,” i.e., from the public; Herodotus (3, 83; and 8, 22): The
speaker exhorts some to “be on our side; but, if this is impossible,
then sit down out of the way,” i.e., leave the coast clear as we should
say, keep neutral and stand aside. The same idiom is seen in Latin-
Terence (Phorm. v. 8, 30): “She is dead, she is gone from among us”
(Θ medio abiit). The opposite expression shows the same thing. In
Xenophon (Cyr. 5, 2, 26), one asks, “What stands in the way of your
joining us?” (£2 2?2w 71222).

Thus the lawless one is, at present, being held fast in the pit (while
his secret counsels are at work); and the Devil is holding On to his
position in the heavenlies (Eph. 2:2; Eph. 6:12). But presently there
will be “war in Heaven” (Rev. 12:1-17), and Satan will be cast out into
the earth. Then in Rev. 13:1, we read, “and he (Satan) stood upon the
sand of the sea” (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ) Then it is
that he will call up this lawless one, whom John immediately sees
rising up out of the sea to run his brief career, and be destroyed by the
glory of the Lord’s appearing.
The complete rendering therefore of these two verses (1Th. 2:6-7),
will be as follows:-“And now ye know what holds him [the lawless one]
fast, to the end that he may be revealed in his own appointed season.
For the secret counsel of lawlessness doth already work; only, there is
one [Satan] who at present holds fast [fo his possessions in the
heavenlies], until he be cast out [into the earth, Rev. 12:9-12; and
“stand upon the sand of the sea,” Rev. 13:1, R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] ], and then shall be revealed that lawless one whom
the Lord Jesus shall slay with the spirit of his mouth, and destroy with
the brightness of his coming” (Isa. 11:4).

Jam. 5:3.-“Ye have heaped treasure together for the, last days.” The
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] is tame in comparison with
this, “Ye have laid up your treasure in the last days.” θησαυρίζω
(theesaurizo) means simply to treasure up. In Rom. 2:5, we have the
expression “treasurest up wrath.” So here, there is the Ellipsis of what
is treasured up. We may supply “wrath” here. “Ye have treasured up
[wrath] for the last days,” or in last (or final) days, ie., days of
extremity.

1Pe. 2:23.-“But committed himself to him that judgeth righteously.”

Here the omitted accusative is supplied, but it is a question
whether it ought to be “himself,” or rather as in the margin both of A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] “his cause.”
3. The omission of the Pronoun

Where there can be no doubt to whom or to what the noun refers, the
pronoun is frequently omitted in the Greek, and in most cases is
supplied in italic type in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]

The omission of the pronoun makes it more emphatic, attention
being called more prominently to it.
Mat. 19:13.-“That He should put the hands [of Him] upon them,” i.e.,
His hands.
Mat. 21:7.-“And put on them the clothes [of them]’ i.e., their garments,
“and he sat upon them.” This is the reading of the critical editions.
Mar. 5:23.-“Come and lay the hands [of thee] upon her” i.e., thy
hands. Where the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] does not even put thy in italics. Compare
Mat. 9:18, where the pronoun (σου, sou) thy is used.
Mar. 6:5.-“And he laid the hands [of him] upon a few sick folk,” i.e., his
hands. So also 8:25, 16:18; Act. 9:17.

Luk. 24:40.-“And when He had thus spoken, He showed them the
hands and the feet [of Him], i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “his hands and
his feet.”

Joh. 11:41.-“And Jesus lifted up the eyes [of Him],” {6., his eyes.

Act. 13:3.-“And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid the hands
[of them] on them,” i.e., their hands on them.

Act. 19:6.-“And when Paul had laid the hands [of him] upon them,”
ie., his hands.

Eph. 3:17-18.-“That ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may know
what is the breadth [of if], and length [of if], and the depth [of if], and
the height [of if],” i.e., of love. “That ye may know what is [its] breadth,
and length, and depth, and height, etc.”

Heb. 4:15.-“But was in all points tempted. according to the likeness [of
us] apart from sin,” /.е., according to [our] likeness.
Rom. 6:3-4.-Мау be perhaps best explained by this figure. “Know ye
not that so many of us as were baptized into Christ Jesus, unto his
death we were baptized? Therefore we were buried together with him
by the baptism [of him] (i.e., by his baptism) unto death.” For He had
“a cup” to drink of (His death), and “a baptism to be baptized with” (His
burial), and when He died and was buried, His people died and were
buried with Him, and, as the next verse goes on to say, rose again
with Him.

So the passage reads: “Therefore we were buried with him by his
baptism-unto-death [/е., his burial], in order that just as Christ was
raised from among the dead by the glory of the Father, so we also, in
newness of life should walk. For if we have become identified in the
likeness of his death, certainly in that of his resurrection also we shall
be: knowing this, that our old man was crucified together with [him] in
order that the body of sin may be annulled, that we should no longer
be in servitude to sin. For he that hath died hath been righteously
acquitted from the sin [of him], i.e., his sin. Now if we died together
with Christ, we believe that we shall live also together with him.”

The whole argument lies in this that we are reckoned as having
died with Him, and as having been buried with Him in His burial (or
baptism-unto-death). (See Mat. 20:23; Mar. 10:38-39; Luk. 12:50).
Hence all such are free from the dominion and condemnation of sin,
and stand in the newness of resurrection life. This is “the gospel of the
glory” (2Co. 4:4), for it was by the glory of the Father that Christ was
raised, and it is glorious news indeed which tells us that all who are in
Christ are “complete in Him” (Col. 2:10), “accepted in the beloved”
(Eph. 1:6), “perfect in Christ Jesus” (Col. 1:28).

With this agrees Col. 2:10-12. “And ye are complete in him, which
is the head of all principality and power. In whom (ἐν (), en hé) also ye
are circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, in putting
off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ;
buried with him in the baptism [of him] i.e., in his baptism-unto-death,
in whom (ἐν ᾧ, not “wherein,” but as it is rendered above) ye were
raised together also through the faith of the operation of God, who
raised him from among the dead,” etc.

Here, again, the whole argument turns on the fact that the
“circumcision” and the “baptism” spoken of are both “made without
hands,” and both are fulfilled in Christ. The whole context of these two
passages must be studied in order to see the one point and the great
truth which is revealed: viz., that in His death we are circumcised and
cut off, “crucified with Him” (Rom. 6:6): in His burial (or baptism-unto-
death) we are baptized (Rom. 6:4; Col. 2:12): and in His resurrection
we now have our true standing before God. We have all in Christ.
Hence, our completeness and perfection in Him is such that nothing
can be added to it. All who are baptized by Him with the Holy Spirit are
identified with Him in His death, burial, and resurrection. Hence, those
who are being baptized are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not
(1Co. 15:29, see below), for they do not rise if Christ be not raised.
But, if Christ be raised, then we are raised in Him; and “Christ being
raised from the dead dieth no more ... for in that he died, he died unto
sin once for all; but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. Likewise ye
also reckon yourselves dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God, IN
CHRIST JESUS” (Rom. 6:8-11).
Rom. 2:18.-Thou “makest thy boast of God, and knowest the will [of
him],” i.e., his will: the will of God.
1Ti. 6:1.-“That the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed.”
The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] reads “that the name of
God and the doctrine be not blasphemed,” but it is better “the doctrine
[of him],” i.e., his doctrine, as in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]

4. The Omission of Other Connected Words
1Ki. 3:22.-“Thus they spake before the king.” It is not to be supposed
that two women under these exciting circum-stances would confine
themselves to the few concise words of verse 22! Moreover, there is
no “thus” in the Hebrew. Literally it reads-“and they talked before the
king,” {9., “they talked [very much] or kept talking before the king.”
2Ki. 6:25.-“An ass’s head was sold for fourscore pieces of silver, and
the fourth part of a cab of dove’s dung for five pieces of silver.” Here it
is more correct to supply (with the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] margin) “shekels” instead of “pieces,” and translate “was at
eighty shekels of silver.”
2Ki. 25:3.-“And on the ninth day of the fourth month the famine
prevailed.”

The Hebrew reads, “and on the ninth month.” But the Ellipsis is
correctly supplied from Jer. 52:6.

Psa. 119:56.-‘This | had, because | kept thy precepts;” ie., this
[consolation] | had. Luther supplies the word “treasure.”

Jer. 51:31.-“One post shall run to meet another, and one messenger
to meet another, to show the king of Babylon that his city is taken at
one end.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] translates “on every
quarter”! Another version renders it “to its utmost end.” Another “at the
extremity.” Thus it is clear that there is an Ellipsis, and much confusion
in supplying it.

The Hebrew is “from the end”: or with the Ellipsis supplied “from
[each] end.” So in chap. 50:26 (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] ), “come against her from the utmost border.” (Margin:
“Hebrew, from the end”), i.e., as we have suggested, “from [each]
end.”

And so the prophecy was exactly fulfilled. The Babylonians, after
their first discomfiture by Cyrus in the field, retired to the city ... and,
85 Herodotus says, “remained т their holds.”* [Note: ?
i 2222222222.... ἐσσωθέντες 2ῇ 222 22222222222? E? 20 G???.
Herod. Hist. lib. i. §190. See also Xenophon, Cyrop. lib. vii. Compare
Jer. 51:30, “The mighty men of Babylon have forborne to fight, they
have remained in their holds.”]

The forces of Cyrus, having turned the waters of the Euphrates,
entered the city by the bed of the river at each end; and the
messengers who entered at the end where the waters quitted the city
ran to meet those who had come in where the waters entered the city;
so that they met one another. Herodotus expressly describes this in
his history (book i. §191). Those who were at the extremities were at
once slain, while those in the centre were feasting in utter ignorance of
what was going on. See Dan. 5:3-4; Dan. 5:23; Dan. 5:30. Thus the
correct supply of the Ellipsis is furnished and established by the exact
fulfilment of the prophecy, proving the wonderful accuracy of the
Divine Word.

Eze. 13:18.-“Woe to the women that sew pillows to all armholes.”
This may be translated literally, “Woe to those who sew together
coverings upon all joints of [the people ой my hands,” i.e., my people.
The context supplies the Ellipsis, for the subject is the deception of
God’s people by the false prophets; and the covering and veiling of
verse 18 corresponds to the daubing and coating of verse 14, etc.,
ie., the making things easy for the people so that they should not
attend to God’s word.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] reads, “that sew
pillows upon all elbows,” margin, “Heb. joints of the hands.” A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
margin, “elbows.”

Mat. 19:17.-“Keep the commandments,” i.e., of God.

Mar. 6:14-16.-The parenthesis in verse 14 must be extended to the
end of verse 15. What Herod said is stated in verse 16. The rumour of
what others said is stated in the parenthesis:-“And king Herod heard
[of these mighty works]; (for his name was spread abroad, and [one]
+ [Note: The Greek reads ἔλεγεν (elegen), one said. The reading put
by Tr. and R.V. in the margin, and by Lachmann, and Westcott and
Hort in the Text is esis (elegon) some said.] said that John the
Baptist was risen from the dead, and therefore mighty works do show
forth themselves in him. Others said, It is Elias; and others said, It is a
prophet, or as one of the prophets). But when Herod heard* [Note:
Repeated from verse 14.] thereof, + [Note: Or when Herod heard
these various opinions.] he said, It is John whom | beheaded: he 15
risen from the dead.”

Luk. 14:18.-“They all with one consent began to make excuse.”

ἀπὸ μιᾶς (apo mias) with one [mind], or with one [declining]: i.e.,

they all alike began to decline the invitation.
Joh. 3:13.-“No man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came
down from heaven, even the Son of Man which is in heaven.” The
words translated “which is” are © ὤν (ho 6n) the article, and the
present participle of the verb “to be’-literally, the one being: i.e., who
was being, or simply who was. Compare Joh. 1:18 “who was (0 ὤν) in
the bosom of the Father.” Joh. 9:25, “Whereas | was blind” (τυφλὸς
ὤν). Joh. 19:38, “being a disciple,” i.e., who was a disciple. Luk.
24:44, “I spake whilst | was yet with you” (ἔτι ὤν, ей δη). 2Co. 8:9,
“Though he was rich” (πλούσιος ὤν, plousios 6n).

Hence our verse reads, “Even the Son of Man who was in
heaven.” This agrees with Joh. 6:62, where we have the words, “What
and if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before?”

The fact taught us by this is, that the human body of the Lord
Jesus cannot be in more than one place at the same time. This fact
cuts at the roots of all errors that are based on any presence of Christ
on earth during this present dispensation. The presence of the Holy
Spirit is the witness to the absence of Christ. There can be no
presence of Christ now except by the Holy Spirit. He will be present
again bodily only at His personal return from Heaven. Now He is
seated at the right hand of God, “henceforth expecting,” until the
moment arrives for God to place His enemies as a footstool for His
feet, when He shall rise up to receive His people to Himself and come
with and reign until He shall have put all enemies under His feet. (See
above, page 7).
Any presence, therefore, of Christ in the Lord’s Supper, other than
by His Spirit in our hearts,t [Note: See the Rubrick at the end of the
Communion Service of the Church of England.] is a denial of His real
human nature, and of His return from Heaven: and this is an error
which affects both the first and second Advents. The Lord’s Supper,
therefore, is the witness of His rea/ absence; for it is instituted only “till
He come.” And not until that glorious day will there be any “real
presence” on earth. And then it will be a bodily presence, for it is “on
the Mount of Olives,” that His feet will rest, and “on Mount Zion” that
He shall reign.

Act. 10:36.-“The word which God sent unto the children of Israel
preaching peace by Jesus Christ.”

The Ellipsis here is caused by a Hebraism, as in Hag. 2:5.
“According to the word that | covenanted with you,” etc. So this will
read, “[According to] the word which God sent, etc.”

Or it may be taken as parallel to Psa. 107:20. “He sent his word,
and healed them.” So Isa. 9:8. God “sent” when His Son came,
through whom God proclaimed the Gospel of peace. Hence “[This is]
the word which God sent.”

Act. 18:22.-“And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up ...
and saluted the Church, he went down to Antioch,” i.e., “Gone up [to
Jerusalem].” As is clear from verse 21, as well as from the
circumstances of the case.

Rom. 2:27.-“And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil
the law, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost trangress
the law?”

Here we have, first, to note the figure of Hendiadys (q.v. [Note:
Which see.] ) “letter and circumcision” and translate it /iteral
circumcision. And next we have to preserve the emphasis marked by
the order of the words, which we can well do if we correctly supply the
Ellipsis:-

“And shall not uncircumcision which by nature fulfilleth the law,
condemn thee [though thou art a Jew], who, through the literal
circumcision, art a trangressor of the law?”

Rom. 11:11.-“l say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall [for
ever]? God forbid: but rather through their fall salvation is come unto
the Gentiles, for to provoke them to jealousy.” The fall mentioned here
must be interpreted by verse 1 “cast away,” and verse 25 “until,” and
by the condition of verse 23. Is their fall the object or end of their
stumbling? See Joh. 11:4.

Rom. 12:19.-“Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give
place unto wrath.” This does not mean “yield to the wrath of your
enemy,” but “give place to the wrath* [Note: <fj ὀσ]ῇ (tee orgee).] [of
God], for (the reason is given) it is written, Vengeance is mine; | will
repay, saith the Lord.”

Rom. 14:2.-“For one believeth that he may eat all things; another, who
is weak [in the faith], eateth herbs [only].”

Rom. 14:5.-“One man esteemeth one day above another,” i.e., “one
man indeed (μέν), esteemeth one day [more holy] than another; but
(δὲ) another esteemeth every day [alike].”

Rom. 14:20.-“All things indeed are pure,” {6., “all [meats] indeed [are]
clean; but [it is] evil to the man who eateth with offence [to his weak
brother).” “Clean” here means ceremonially clean, and hence, allowed
to be eaten.

Rom. 14:23.-“And he that doubteth is damned (or condemned) if he
eat,” i.e., “and he that holdeth a difference [between meats] is
condemned if he eat, because [he eateth] not from (ἐκ) faith; for
whatsoever is not of faith is sin.”

1Co. 7:6.-“But | speak this [which | have said] by permission and not
commandment.”

1Co. 9:9-10.-“Doth God take care for oxen [only]? Or saith he it
altogether for our sakes?”
1Co. 12:6.-The expression “all in all” is elliptical: and the sense must
be completed according to the nature of the subject and the context,
both here, and in the other passages where it occurs.

Here, “it is the same God, which worketh all [these gifts] in all [the
members of Christ's body]:” what these gifts are, and who these
members are, is fully explained in the immediate context. See verses
4-31.
1Co. 15:28.-“Then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that
put all things under him, that God may be all in all.” The word πάντα
occurs six times in the 27th and 28th verses and is in each case
translated correctly “all things” except in this last occurrence. We have
no liberty to change the translation here. It must be “all things,” and to
complete the sense we must render it “that God may be [over] all
things, in all [places]; i.e., over all beings in all parts of the universe.
Eph. 1:23.-“The church, which is His body, the fulness* [Note: The
termination of the word @uu: denotes the result or product of the verb
to fill, i.e., of the act of the verb. Hence this fulness means a filling up
in exchange for emptiness. His members fill up the Body of Christ, and
He fills up the members with all spiritual gifts and graces.] of him that
filleth all in all.” Here, we must supply:-“that filleth all [fhe members of
His body] with all [spiritual gifts and graces].” Compare chap. 4:10-13.
Col. 3:11.-“Christ is all, and in all.” Here the Greek is slightly different
from the other occurrences, but it is still elliptical; and the sense must
be completed thus:-In the new creation “there is neither Greek nor
Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor
free: but Christ is [created in] all [who believe] and in all [places of the
world],” i.e., Πο man is excluded on account of earthly considerations
of condition or location from the blessings and benefits of the new
creation. See Gal. 3:28, where the same truth is expressed in different
words.
1Co. 14:27.-“If any man speak in an unknown tongue, let it be by two,
or at the most three [sentences, or perhaps, persons] and that by
course (i.e., separately); and let one interpret.”
2Co. 1:6.-“And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and
salvation, which is effectual [in you] in the enduring of the same
sufferings which we also suffer, etc.”
2Co. 5:5.-“Now he that hath wrought us for the self same [desire], is
God.”
Gal. 5:10.-“I have confidence in you through the Lord, that ye will be
none otherwise minded.”

The Greek reads “that you will think nothing differently [from me].”
Php. 1:18.-“What then [does it matter]? at any rate, in every way,
whether in pretence or in truth, Christ is preached; and | therein do
rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.”
1Th. 3:7.-“Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our
affliction and distress by your faith,” i.e., “by [the news received of]
your faith.”
1Th. 4:1.-“As ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to
please God, so ye would abound more and more [therein].” See also
verse 10.
Heb. 13:25.-“Grace be with you all,” i.e., “The grace [of God be] with
you all.”
1Jn. 5:15.-“And if we know that he hear us [concerning] whatsoever
we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him.”
1Jn. 5:19.-“The whole world lieth in wickedness:” R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] , “in the wicked one.” But this is not English.
The Ellipsis must be supplied thus:-“The whole World lieth in [the
power of] the wicked one.”

Il. The Omission of Verbs and Participles
A verb is a word which signifies to be, to do, or to suffer, and
expresses the action, the suffering, or the being, or the doing.

When therefore the verb is omitted, it throws the emphasis on the
thing that is done rather than on the doing of it.

On the other hand, when the noun is omitted, our thought is
directed to the action of the verb, and is centred on that rather than on
the object or the subject.

Bearing this in mind, we proceed to consider a few examples:-

1. When the Verb Finite is wanting
Gen. 25:28.-“And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his
venison.” Or it may be that there is no Ellipsis, and it may mean
“because hunting was in his [Esau’s] mouth,” i.e., on his tongue.

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] has given a very free translation. But here again,
the correct supply of the words omitted enables us to retain a literal
rendering of the words that are given: “because the food taken by him
in hunting [was sweet, or was pleasanif] in his mouth.”
Num. 16:28.-“And Moses said, ‘Hereby ye shall know that the Lord
hath sent me to do all these works; for not of my own mind.’ ”

Here we may render it, “for not of mine own heart [have | said
these things]. See verse 24.
1Sa. 19:3.-“I will commune with my father of thee; and what | see, that
| will tell thee.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] translates “and if |
see aught.” But the Hebrew with the Ellipsis supplied, is: “and will see
what [he replies], and will tell thee.”
2Sa. 4:10.-“When one told me, saying, behold, Saul is dead, thinking
to have brought good tidings, | took hold of him, and slew him in
Ziklag, who thought that | would have given him a reward for his
tidings.”

Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] has supplied the verb “thought,” but perhaps the
verb “had come” is better, i.e., “who [had come] that | should give him
a reward for his tidings.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] translates, “which
was the reward | gave him for his tidings.”
2Sa. 18:12.-“Beware that none touch the young man Absalom.”

2Sa. 23:17.-This is a case in which the Ellipsis is wrongly supplied in
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] “And he said, Be it far from me, O Lord, that | should do
this: is not this the blood of the men that went in jeopardy of their
lives?”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] rightly supplies from
1Ch. 11:19, “Be it far from me, О Lord, that | should do this: shail |
drink the blood of the men, etc.”
1К!. 11:25.-“And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of
Solomon, beside the mischief that Hadad did,” i.e., that Hadad
wrought or brought upon him.
1Ki. 14:6.-“I am sent to thee with heavy tidings.” The Hebrew is, “I am
sent to thee hard.”

The Ellipsis may thus be supplied: “I am sent to thee [fo tell thee,
or to bring thee, or to prophesy to thee] hard [things]. See verse 5.
1К!. 22:36.-“And there went a proclamation throughout the host about
the going down of the sun, saying, “Every man to his city, and every
man to his own country.” Here the verb return is to be supplied. “Let
every man return to his city, etc.,” or “[Return] every man to his city,
etc.”

2Ki. 25:24.-The word “fled” is not in the Hebrew. The Ellipsis is thus
supplied in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
correctly in italics.
Ezr. 10:14.-“Let now our rulers of all the congregation stand, and let
all them which have taken strange wives in our cities come at
appointed times, and with them the elders of every city, and the judges
thereof, until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter be turned
away.”

The Hebrew of the last clause reads, “Until (TI) the fierce wrath of our
God be turned back from us, until (TI) this matter [be carried οι.”

This filling up of the Ellipsis enables us to take the other words in
the verse literally. The non-observance of the figure leads the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] to give two different meanings (viz., “until” and “for’) to the
word TI until, which is used twice in the same passage.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] reads, “Until the
fierce wrath of our God be turned from us, until this matter be
dispatched,” and gives an alternative in the margin for the last clause
“as touching this matter.”

Ezr. 10:19.-“And being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their
trespass.”
Here the Ellipsis of the verb is properly supplied.
Job. 3:21.-“Which long for death, but it cometh not; and dig for it more
than for hid treasures [but find it nof].”
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] supplies the first verb, but not the second.
Job. 4:6.-“/s not this thy fear, thy confidence, thy hope, and the
uprightness of thy ways?”
The Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] renders it:-“Is not thy
fear of God thy confidence, and thy hope the integrity of thy ways?”
These two lines are arranged as an introversion in the Hebrew:-
Is not thy fear
thy confidence?
And thy hope
the integrity of thy ways?
Or by transposing the words they may be exhibited as an alternation:
Is not thy fear thy confidence?
And the integrity of thy ways, thy hope?

It should be noted that the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or

current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] of 1611 originally read, “/s not
this thy feare thy confidence; the uprightness of thy wayes and thy
hope?” The change first appears in the Cambridge edition of 1638.
But by whom this and many similar unauthorised changes have been
made in the text of the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] of 1611, is not known, and can only
be conjectured!* [Note: See Appendix Α.]
Job. 39:13 seems to have caused much trouble to the translators.
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] reads, “Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the
peacocks? or wings and feathers unto the ostrich?” The R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] and other versions which ignore the
Ellipsis (which the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] correctly supplies) have to give a very
unnatural translation, and miss the challenge which is connected with
all the other wonders of God’s works in these chapters.

The scanty featherless wing of the ostrich (LUPP/H renana, not
peacock) is contrasted with the warm full-feathered wing of the stork(C/ Г.
chaseedah, not ostrich), and man is challenged, “Didst thou give
either the one or the other?”

Psa. 4:2.-°О ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into
shame?”
Psa. 22:16.-“They pierced my hands and my feet.” Through not
seeing the Ellipsis of the verb in this verse, the word in the Hebrew
text nan (karee), as a lion, has been translated as though it were
a verb Лаше (karoo) they pierced.t (Note: In the first case the Kaph
Л is rendered “as” and is prefixed to alun (aree) a lion; in the latter
case it forms part of the verb JILU@=(karoo).] But we have no
authority thus to ignore the printed text. On the contrary, verse 16
corresponds exactly with verse 12. In verse 12 we have two animals,
“bulls” and “a lion” (the first plural, and the second singular). So also
we have in verse 16, two animals, “dogs” and “a lion.” If, however, we
take karee as a noun, there is an Ellipsis of the verb, which we may
well supply from Isa. 38:13, and then we may translate the rest
literally: “As a lion [they will break up] my hands and my feet.”* [Note:
See Ginsburg’s Introduction to the Massoretico-Critical Hebrew Bible,
р. 969.]
The structure of the passage proves that this is the case. Verses
12-17 form the Centre of this part of the Psalm:-
А 12-13. They. Beasts surrounding: “bulls” (pl. [Note: |. The
Plural Number.] ), and “a lion” (sing. [Note: ing. The Singular
Number,] ).
В 14-15. |. The consequence. “I am poured out like water.”

А 16. They. Beasts surrounding: “dogs” (pl. [Note: |. The Plural
Number.] ), and “a lion” (sing. [Note: ing. The Singular
Number,] ).

В 17. Ι. The consequence. “I may tell all my bones.”
Psa. 25:15.-“Mine eyes are ever towards the Lord,” /е., “mine eyes
are ever lifted up or looking toward the Lord.” See Psa. 121:1. The
verb is omitted, that We may not think of the act of looking, but at the
object to which we look.
Psa. 120:7.-1 am for peace; but when | speak, they are for war.”
There are no verbs in the Hebrew, which is:-“l peace; but when |
speak, they for war.” The verbs to be supplied are doubtless, “I [/ove]
peace; but when | speak they [cry ouf] for war,” or “they break forth
into war.”
Ecc. 8:2.-“l counsel thee keep the king’s commandment.”
Isa. 60:7.-“For your shame ye shall have double.” Here the Ellipsis is
properly supplied. (See this passage under other Figures).
Isa. 66:6.-“A voice of noise (tumult, Ι.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] ) from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice of the Lord that
rendereth recompense to his enemies”: i.e., a voice of tumult is heard
from the city, a voice sounds forth from the temple, etc.
Jer. 18:14.-“Will a man leave the snow of Lebanon which cometh from
the rock of the field?”

There is no sense whatever in this rendering, and the R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] is but tittle better: “Shall the snow of
Lebanon fail from the rock of the field?”

The Ellipsis is not to be supplied by the verb “cometh.” But it
should be:

“Will a man leave the snow of Lebanon for the rock of the field?

Or shall the cold flowing waters be forsaken for strange waters?”
Jer. 19:1.-“Go and get (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] buy)
a potter’s earthen vessel and take of the elders of the people, &c.”
Hos. 8:1.-“He shall come as an eagle against the house of the Lord:”
ié., as an eagle shall the enemy come against the house of the Lord.
Amo. 3:11.-“Thus saith the Lord God (Adonai Jehovah): an adversary
there shall be, etc.” So the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
But “an adversary shall come,” would be better.”

Mat. 26:5.-“But they said, not on the feast day,” i.e., Let us not do it on
the feast day (so also Mar. 14:2).
Act. 15:25.-“Certain which went out from us have troubled you with
words, subverting your souls, saying, ye must be circumcised, and
keep the law,” {6., saying, ye ought to be circumcised, and to keep the
law.

Rom. 2:7-10.-There are several ellipses in these verses which may be
thus supplied.

“To them who by patient continuance in well doing seek for glory
and honour and immortality [he will give] eternal life. But unto them
that are contentious and do not obey the truth, but obey
unrighteousness, [shall come] indignation and wrath, tribulation and
anguish upon every soul of man that doeth evil, of the Jew first and
also of the Gentile* [Note: In Deu. 28:53, this is applied to the Jew (cf.
Sept.). “In thy anguish and tribulation wherewith thine enemy shall
afflict thee.” (A.V., “In the siege and in the straitness wherewith thine
enemies shall distress thee”). Cf. Isa. 8:22.

While in Isa. 13:9, this is applied to the Gentile.

Thus these words are applied even in the Old Testament: “to the
Jew first, and also to the Gentile.”] ; but glory, honour, and peace [shall
be rendered] to every man that worketh good, to the dew first and also
to the Gentile.”
Rom. 4:9.-“Cometh this blessedness then on the circumcision only, or
upon the uncircumcision also?”

Le., “This blessedness, then, [cometh it only] on the circumcision?”
Rom. 6:19.-“For as ye have yielded your members servants to
uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your
members servants to righteousness unto holiness.”

Le., “To [work] iniquity”: and “to [work] holiness.”

Rom. 11:18.-“Boast not against the branches. But if thou boast, thou
bearest not the root, but the root thee,” {6., but if thou boast, / te/l thee
(or know thou) thou bearest not the root, but the root beareth thee.
Rom. 13:11.-“And that, knowing the time, that now it is high time to
awake out of sleep, etc.”

The Greek is καὶ τοῦτο (kai touto), “and this [/ add or | exhort]
knowing the reason, that [it is] already the hour [for us] to awake out of
sleep.”
1Co. 2:12.-“Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the
Spirit which is of God.”

There is no verb in this latter clause, and the verb “is” which is
supplied in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] should be in italics. But “which [cometh] from
God,” is better; or “is received,” repeated from the previous sentence.
1Co. 4:20.-“For the kingdom of God {5 not in word but in power.”
There is no verb in the whole of this verse; consequently one must be
supplied:-“For the kingdom of God [is established or governed] not by
word (or speech as in verse 19) but by power.”

1Со. 14:33.-“For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as
in all churches of the saints.” There is no verb in the latter clause,
therefore one must be supplied. The word “God” may also be
repeated as in the Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] :-

“For God is not [a God] of confusion, but of peace, as [He is] in all
churches of the saints.” Or, “as in all the churches of the saints [is well
known.”
2Co. 9:14.-“And by their prayer for you, which long after you for the
exceeding grace of God in you.” The Greek is ἐφ᾽ ὑμῖν (ΕρΗ΄ humin)
upon you, and requires the verb to be supplied, “for the exceeding
grace of God [bestowed] upon you.”
2Co. 12:18.-“I desired Titus [fo go to youl, etc.”

Gal. 5:13.-“Only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh.”
Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] supplies “use.” But it might well be “misuse or
abuse.”
Eph. 4:9.-“Now that he ascended.” The Greek reads as in R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] , “Now this, He ascended.” But the
Ellipsis must be supplied: “Now, this [fact]” or “Now, this [expression],
He ascended, what is it unless that he also descended first into the
lower parts of the earth?”

Eph. 5:9.-“For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and
righteousness and truth:” i.e., [consists] in these things.

All the ancient MSS. and critical texts, and the R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] agree in reading φωτός (phdtos) of the light,
instead of πνεύματος (pneumatos) of the Spirit, and thus “the fruits of
the light” are contrasted with “the unfruitful works of darkness.”

Php. 3:15.-“Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded:”
i.e., [desire to be] perfect. There is no verb, and the word “be” ought to
have been put in italics.

1Ti. 2:6.-“Who gave himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due
time.” Here there is no verb in the latter clause. The Greek reads, “the
testimony in due times “or in its own seasons. Hence the A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
has boldly substituted a Verb for the noun “to be testified”; while the
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] has rendered it: “the
testimony to be borne in its own times.” We may supply the Ellipsis
more fully thus: “the testimony [of which, was to be borne by us] in his
own appointed season.”

The word “all” must be taken here in the sense of “all” without
distinction, because before Christ's death the ransom was only for one
nation-Israel. It cannot be “all” without exception, for in that case all
would and must be saved. See under Synecdoche.

Philem. 6.-“[/ pray] that the communication of thy faith may become
effectual, etc.”

1Pe. 4:11.-“If any man speak, Jet him speak, as the oracles of God
[require].

2Pe. 2:3.-“Whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not.” There is
no “now” in the Greek. “Whose judgment [threatened] of old, lingereth
not. See Jud. 1:4.

1Jn. 3:20.-“For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart,
and knoweth all things.”

In the Greek, the word ὅτι (hoti), that, occurs twice, and the
construction is difficult. The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] avoids it by translating the
first ὅτι “for,” and ignoring the second occurrence altogether. The R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] evades it by adopting for the first
ὅτι the reading (6 τι for ὅτι), which, beyond the Alexandrian Codex,
has scarcely any MS. support, and only that of one Textual critic
(Lachmann). The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] connects
verse 20 with verse 10, and translates “and shall assure our heart
before him, whereinsoever our heart condemn us, because God is
greater, &c.” But this English is as difficult as the Greek.

The difficulty is met by supplying the ellipsis before the second ὅτι,
and translating it “that,” as it is rendered 613 times in the N.T.:-

“For if our heart condemn us [we know] that God is greater than
our heart.”

(a) The Verb “to say”

This is frequently omitted in the original, but is generally supplied in
italics in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.]

Where it is omitted the emphasis is to be placed on what is said
rather than on the act of saying it.
Gen. 26:7.-“Lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me.”
1Ki. 20:34.-“Then said Ahab.”
Psa. 2:2.-“Why do ... the rulers take counsel together against the
Lord, and against his anointed, saying.”
Psa. 109:5.-The structure of this Psalm shows that the verb saying
must be supplied at the end of verse 5.

Α 1-5. David's prayer for himself: and complaint.

В 6-20. David's enemies’ words against him: (ending “that
speak evil against my soul.”)

А 21-28-. David's prayer for himself: and complaint.

В -28-31. David’s enemies’ acts against him: (ending “that
condemn his soul.”)

Here in B and B we have David’s enemies. In B (6-20) their words
and in В (-28-31) their acts. So that verses 6-20 are not David’s words
at all, but the words of David’s enemies, the evil which they speak
against his soul. The evil which they speak is contrasted with the
“good” which he prays for himself in the next verse (21). “Let them
curse,” he says in verse 28, “but bless Thou!” Let them say “let Satan
stand at his right hand” (verse 6); but he is assured (verse 31) that not
Satan but Jehovah shall “stand at the right hand of the poor to save
him from them that condemn his soul.”

Hence in verse 20 David prays, “Let this be the wages* [Note:
φτμῃ (peullah), wages, as in Lev. 19:13. Isa. 40:10; Isa. 49:4; Isa.
59:8; Isa. 52:11. Jer. 22:13.] of mine enemies from the Lord, and of
them that speak evil against my soul.”
So that verse 5 will now read:-
“And they have rewarded me evil for good,
And hatred for my good will [saying].”
Then the Psalm goes on (verses 6-19) to describe the “hatred.”
Having said in verses 2 and 3 that
“The mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are
opened upon me.
They have spoken against me with a lying tongue.
They compassed me about also with words of hatred,”
it is only natural to supply the verb saying at the end of verse 5.
Psa. 144:12 is similar. The structure shows that verses 12 to 15
contain the words of the “strange Children,” and not the words of
David.
А1 1-7. David's words (Thanksgiving and Prayer).
В1 8. The words of the strange children (vanity and
falsehood).

А2 9-11-. David's words (Thanksgiving and Prayer).

B2 -11-15-. The words of the strange children (vanity and
falsehood).

A3 -15. David’s words. The true conclusion as opposed to the

“vanity.”

The word say should be put in italics after the word “that” in verse
12, and then all the many italics inserted in verses 11-15 can be
dispensed with. It is clearly suggested in verses 8 and 11. So clearly
that there is hardly any necessity to use it or repeat it in verse 12. The
pronoun ALLL (asher), who, is clearer than “that.” Lit., “who [say].”
Then the Psalm (B.11-15-) goes on to give the vanity and the
falsehood as to what constitutes the true happiness of any people:-
Who say

“Our sons are as plants grown up in their youth;

Our daughters are as corner-stones, polished after the

similitude of a palace;

Our garners are full, affording all manner of store;

Our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our
streets;

Our oxen are strong to labour.

There is no breaking in nor going out.

There is no complaining in our streets.

Happy people that are in such a case!”
Then comes, in contrast, David's true estimate:

“NO! Happy is that people whose God is Jehovah.”

This is the truth as to real happiness, as is so beautifully declared
in Psa. 4:6-7 --

“There be many that say, Who will show us good?

Lord, lift Thou up the light of Thy countenance upon us.

Thou hast put gladness in my heart,

More than in the time that their corn and their wine increased.”
Yes, this is the only real “good.” This is the only source of abiding
happiness and gladness for any People. It is not the increase of corn
and wine, but the light of God’s countenance; it is not the store which
men put in their garners, but it is the “gladness” which God puts in our
hearts. The structure of the whole Psalm agrees with this, and indeed
necessitates this interpretation.

So, in Psa. 146:6, happiness is declared to consist in having the
God of Jacob for our help, and our hope and help in the LORD our
God: for there is “no help” in man (verse 3).

Isa. 5:9.-“In mine ears said the Lord of hosts.”

Isa. 14:8.-“Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of
Lebanon, saying.”

Isa. 18:2.-“That sendeth ambassadors by the sea, even in vessels of
bulrushes upon the waters, saying.”

Isa. 22:13.-“And behold joy and gladness, slaying oxen, and killing
sheep, eating flesh, and drinking wine: [saying] Let us eat and drink;
for to-morrow we shall die.”

Isa. 24:14-15.-“They shall cry aloud from the sea, [saying],
Wherefore,” etc.
Isa. 28:9.-“Whom shall he teach knowledge?” etc.

That is, “Whom [say they] shall he teach knowledge?” This verse
and the following are the scornful words of “the scornful men”
mentioned in verse 14. They ridicule the words of the prophet, saying,
“for it is tsav upon tsav, tsav upon tsav, &c.,"* [Note: See under
Paronomasia.] not “must be” but “it is.”

Then, in verse 11, the prophet answers “For,” or “Yea, verily, with
stammerings of lip and another (or foreign) tongue will he speak to this
people,” and he tells them why “the word of the Lord was unto them
precept upon precept;” viz. (verse 13), that they might fall and be
broken.

Jer. 9:19.-“For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, [saying], How
are we spoiled!”

Jer. 11:19.-“I knew not that they had devised devices against me,
saying.”

Jer. 50:5.-“They shall ask the way to Zion with their faces thitherward,
saying.”

Lam. 3:41.-“Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God in the
heavens, [saying].”
Hos. 14:8.-“Ephraim shall say,” etc.
Act. 9:6.-“And the Lord said unto him,” etc.
Act. 10:15.-“And the voice spake unto him again the second time.”
Act. 14:22.-“Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them
to continue in the faith, and saying that we must through much
tribulation enter into the kingdom of God.”
2Co. 12:16.-“But be it so, | did not burden you: nevertheless [you say
that] being crafty, | caught you with guile.”

2. When the Infinitive of the verb is wanting:

(a) After the Hebrew vim γ8ΗΚόΗ able

Psa. 21:11.-“They imagined a mischievous device, which they are not
able to perform.”
Psa. 101:5.-“Him that hath an high look and a proud heart will not |
suffer,” i.e., | ат not able {ο bear.
Isa. 1:13.-“The new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, |
cannot away with,” i.e., | am not able {ο endure. See Jer. 44:22.
Psa. 139:6.-“Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, |
cannot attain unto it.” Here the Ellipsis is properly supplied: i.e., | am
not able fo attain unto it.
Hos. 8:5.-“How long will it be ere they attain to innocency?” i.e., how
long ere they are able {ο practise innocency?
1Со. 3:2.-Ч have fed you with milk, and not with meat: for hitherto ye
were not able to bear it,” i.e., to eat, or partake of it, or, to digest it.

(b) After the verb to finish
1Sa. 16:11.-“Are here all thy children?” Here the Ellipsis is avoided by
a free and idiomatic translation. The Heb. reads, “Have the young men
finished?” i.e., “Are the young men finished passing by?” or done
passing before me?
Mat. 10:23.-“Ye shall not have gone over the cities of Israel till the Son
of Man be come.” Lit. “Ye will not have finished going over the cities,”
etc., referring to verses 6 and 7.
Mat. 13:53.-“When Jesus had finished these parables,” i.e., when
Jesus had finished speaking these parables.
(c) When the INFINITIVE is wanting after another verb, personal
or impersonal

Gen. 9:20.-“And Noah began to be an husbandman,” or, “And Noah
the husbandman began and planted, etc.”
1Ki. 7:47.-“And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed because they
were exceeding many,” i.e., and Solomon omitted to weigh, etc.
Pro. 21:5.-“The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness:
but of every one that is hasty only to want.”

Here plenteousness is ОеЪШ (méthar) that which is over and
above, excess, (from ὕμιι (yahthar) to be superfluous).

“The thoughts of the diligent tend only to excess, and [the
thoughts] of every one that hasteth [fo get riches tend] only to want.”
The Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] supplies the Ellipses
thus. “But every one that is hasty hasteth only to want’; “hasting to
want’ is very obscure, but the “hasting to get riches” tending to want is
clear.

Mar. 15:8.-“And the multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do
as he had ever done unto them,” i.e., that he should do.

Luk. 13:33.-“Nevertheless | must walk to-day, and to-morrow, and the
day following,” etc.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] has “Howbeit | must
go on my way.” But the Greek is “Howbeit it behoves me to-day, and
to-morrow, and the day following, to go on [to work],” i.e., to continue
working.

Rom. 4:25.-“Who was delivered [to die] for our offences.”

3. When the Verb Substantive is omitted
The Hebrew having no verb substantive, this is generally expressed in
italics in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] But inasmuch as it is absolutely necessary for
the sense in English, the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] has
printed it in roman type. (See preface to R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] );
Gen. 1:2.-“Darkness was upon the face of the deep.”
Gen. 2:10.-Lit. “And there was a river going out of Eden.”
Gen. 3:6.-“And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food,
and that it was pleasant to the eyes,” etc.
Gen. 4:13.-“My punishment is greater than | can bear.”
Gen. 5:1.-“This is the book of the generations of Adam.”
Num. 14:9.-“Only rebel not ye against the Lord, neither fear ye the
people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defence is departed
from them, and the Lord is with us; fear them not.”
These are the words of Joshua and Caleb to the people to
encourage them to go up in spite of the false report of the other spies.
Note first the marginal rendering of the word “defence.” It is given
“Heb. shadow,” i.e., “Their shadow is departed.” So in the R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] the word “shadow’ is treated as though it
were a figure (Metonymy). The literal meaning of the word is departed
from, as well as the literal rendering of the preceding sentence. This is
On мдоре (kee lachmenoo) “for they are our bread.”

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] correctly supplies the Ellipsis, i.e., our bread
aptly represents their condition.
What was their “bread”? It was manna. What was the manna like?
It was most marvellous bread, for it was so hard that it had to be
ground in mills, or beaten in a mortar (Num. 11:8); and yet its
consistency was so peculiar that it melted in the sun! (Exo. 16:21). If it
were not gathered every morning before the sun arose and the
shadows departed, “when the sun waxed hot, it melted”!* [Note:
Marvellous bread indeed! A standing miracle, both as to the manner in
which it was given, and also as to its consistency. Bread indeed, hard,
and yet melting like ice in the sun.]

The wicked spies had just said (Num. 13:31) that Israel could not
go up against the people of the land, for they are “stronger than we”:
they were strong and hard. No, replies Joshua, it may be they are
strong, but so is our bread the manna-so strong that it needs grinding
and crushing, and yet, when the shadow goes from off it, it melts
away. Even so is it with them, as the words of Rahab testify (Jos.
2:11). The two spies whom Joshua afterwards sent heard the very
same truth from the lips of Rahab, which he, one of the two faithful
spies whom Moses had sent, forty years before declared. She tells
them:-“As soon as we had heard these things, our hearts did melt,
neither did there remain any more courage in any man, because of
you.”
Thus, while the literal signification of the words gives no sense,
they point to the true figure; and then, in turn, the figure explains the
literal signification of the words, and the true meaning of the passage.
So that we may render it thus:-“Only rebel not ye against Jehovah,
neither fear ye the people of the land; for they [are like] our bread;
their shadow hath turned aside from off them, and Jehovah is with us;
fear them not,” ᾖ8., as when the shadow turns aside from off our
bread, it melts away and disappears, so these enemies, hard and
strong as they might be, would surely melt away before the Lord God,
the Sun and the Shield of His people. In no sense could Jehovah be
the shadow or defence of the people of the land against whom Israel
was about to fight.
1Sa. 19:11.-“To-morrow thou shalt be slain.”
2Ki. 6:33.-“Behold, this evil is of the Lord.”
2Ch. 3:9.-“And the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold.”

The verb is omitted to show that the emphasis is on the “nails” and
their “weight.” And what a wonderful emphasis it is! For in all the
requirements for “the house of God,” the fir-trees, the fine gold, the
precious stones, the beams, the posts, the walls, etc., are mentioned;
yet, the “nails” that held all together are not omitted. Though they were
small, yet God used them: though out of sight, they were necessary.
Psa. 33:4.-“For the word of the Lord is right.”
Psa. 99:9.-“For the Lord our God is holy.”

It is worthy of note that there are three Psalms which begin with
the words: “The Lord reigneth,” viz., xciii., xcvii., and xcix. They each
end with a reference to holiness.

Psa. 93:1-5 “Holiness becometh Thine house, O Lord, for ever.”

Psa. 97:1-12 “Give thanks at the remembrance of His holiness.”

Psa. 99:1-9 The third Psalm, three times:

Verse 3. “It is holy.”
Verse 5. “He is holy.”
Verse 9. “The Lord our God is holy.”
To those who have ears to hear, this plainly declares that when the
Lord shall reign, all will be holy; that when His kingdom comes, His
name will be hallowed on earth as it is in heaven. “In that day shall
there be upon the bells (or bridles) of the horses, HOLINESS UNTO
THE LORD; and the pots in the Lord’s house shall be like the bowls
before the altar. Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be
HOLINESS unto the Lord of hosts” (Zec. 14:20-21). “Her merchandise
and her hire shall be holiness to the Lord” (Isa. 23:18).

The cry of the living creatures (Rev. 4:8, etc.) is “Holy, holy, holy,”
and their call is for the judgments which will issue in the Lord’s reign,
which is celebrated in these three Psalms. Those who teach that the
Cherubim (or the Cherubs) are the Church fail to see that their chief
function is to call for judgment!

Psa. 119:89.-“For ever, O Lord.” The verb must here be supplied. The
verb in the parallel line answers to the verb here:-

“For ever [art Thou] O Lord;

Thy word is settled in heaven.

Thy faithfulness is unto all generations;

Thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.”
In the first and third lines, we have Jehovah. In the second and

fourth lines, we have what He has settled and established.

Ecc. 7:12.-“Wisdom is a defence.”

Isa. 43:25.-Ч, even |, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for
mine own sake, and will not remember thy sins.”

We may take this in connection with Psa. 103:14. “For he knoweth
our frame; he remembereth that we are dust.”

Here the verbs are omitted to throw the emphasis on the persons,
rather than on the acts. This points us to Jehovah in the former
passage, and ourselves in the latter-His Deity, and our vanity-and to
contrast His thoughts with our thoughts, His ways with our ways. God
remembers our infirmities; but this is the very thing that man will not
remember! Man will make no allowance for our infirmities. On the
other hand, man will remember our sins. Let any one of us fall into sin,
and many will remember it after many years: but this is what God says
He will not remember! “Their sins and their iniquities will | remember
no more.” He is Jehovah, we are dust! Hence our sins, which man
remembers, God will forget; but our infirmities, which man forgets,
God will remember. Blessed be God!

Isa. 44:6.-“I am the first and | am the last, and beside me there is no
God.”
Eze. 34:17.-“And as for you.”

The Ellipses of this passage may be thus supplied: “And ye, O my
flock, thus saith the Lord God (Adonai Jehovah): Behold, | judge
between cattle and cattle, between the rams and the he goats. [/s if] a
small thing to you [goats] to have eaten up the good pasture, but ye
must tread down with your feet the residue of your pastures? and to
have drunk of the deep waters, but ye must foul the residue with your
feet? And [is it a small thing that] my flock [i.e., my sheep] eat [or must
eat] that which ye [goats] have trodden with your feet; and drink that
which ye have fouled with your feet?”

The contrast is between the sheep and the goats. Sheep never
become goats, and goats never become sheep, either in nature or in
grace. The Chief Shepherd knows His sheep here; He separates them
now, and will eternally separate them from the goats in the coming
day, when He shall “save his flock, and judge between cattle and
cattle” (verses 20, 22, 23).
The characteristic of the goat alluded to here, is graphically set
forth in a paper read before the Victoria Institute, Feb. 1, 1892, by J.W.
Slater, Esq., F.C.S., F.E.S. He says, “The native flora and fauna of St.
Helena have been practically extirpated by the goat. These young
seedlings were browsed down as fast as they sprung up, and when
the old giants of the forest decayed there were no successors to take
their place. As a necessary consequence, the insects and birds
disappeared in turn. The same horned wretch’-fit type of evil-which, as
Sir Joseph Hooker shows, has ravaged the earth to a greater extent
than man has done by war, is now in the very same manner laying
waste South Africa. To such an extent has the mischief already been
carried, that a troop of the Colonial Cavalry on the march actually
gave three cheers on meeting a tree!”

Have we not here a fit illustration of Eze. 34:1-31? And may we not
see in ecclesiastical affairs around us (through the unfaithfulness of
the shepherds) the ravages of the “goats” in treading down and laying
waste, and fouling the pastures of the flock of God? The goats have
turned our churches and chapels into places of amusement and of
musical entertainment, where they may have “pleasant afternoons,”
and “make provision for the flesh”; so much so that the. Lord’s sheep
are “pushed” and “scattered,” and scarcely know where to find the
“green pastures” and the “living waters” of the pure Word of God and
the Gospel of His grace! Thank God, the Chief Shepherd is coming:
and, when He comes, though He will scarcely “find faith on the earth”
(Luk. 18:8), He will “save His flock” and separate them from the goats
for ever, and be their One True Shepherd.

Luk. 2:14.-“Glory to God in the highest,” i.e., Glory be to God in the
highest.

Luk. 22:21.-"The hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the
table.”

Joh. 4:24.-“God is a Spirit.”

See under Hendiadys and Hyperbaton.

Act. 2:29.-“Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the
patriarch David.”

Here the verb “speak” is the infinitive: /it., “to speak,” and “let me”
is the present participle (ἐξόν, exon),* [Note: €??? (exon) occurs only
three times, of these the first (Mat. 12:4) has ?? (een), was, after it;
while in the other two places (here, and 2Co. 12:4) it stands alone. In
2Co. 12:4 it seems plain that we must supply ¢???? (estin), is; and so
probably we should do here.] permitted or allowed. So that we must
supply the verb substantive (ἔστω, esto), let me be:-“[let me be]
permitted to speak freely unto you, or / am, or may be, permitted, etc.”
1Со. 6:13.-“Meats [are] for the belly, and the belly [/s] for meats.”
1Со. 15:29.-“Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead,
if the dead rise not at all?”
This passage has been supposed to refer to a practice which
obtained even in those apostolic days of persons being baptized on
behalf of and for the spiritual benefit of those who were already dead.
As this practice thus receives a tacit approval, and yet is destitute of
any historical evidence as to its existence, apart from this passage,
various methods have been proposed of meeting the difficulty which is
thus raised. Some have erroneously suggested that “the dead” refers
to Christ: but they have done so in ignorance of the fact that the word
is plural, as is clearly shown by the verb “rise.” Others (with
Macknight) suggest the supply of the words “resurrection of’-“What
shall they do which are baptized for the [resurrection of] the dead?”
But this implies the omission of the very word which is most essential
to the argument; and would be a form of Ellipsis seldom, if ever, found.
There are a multitude of other explanations; but the true solution of the
difficulty is (we submit) to be sought in punctuation, and in the correct
supply of the Ellipsis.

We must bear in mind that there is no punctuation in the ancient
manuscripts, beyond the greater pauses. All interpunctuation is purely
human in its origin, and we may be thankful that it is so seldom
necessary to question its accuracy. We have also to note the structure
of the whole context, for this, like all other texts, must be interpreted in
harmony with the scope of the whole passage, and with the design of
the whole argument.
The following is the structure of 1Co. 15:12-58.* [Note: The first
eleven verses are constructed as follows:-
D 1-. The apostle’s declaration.
Е -1, 2. The Gospel he preached.
Р 3-. The apostle’s declaration.
Е 3-11. The Gospel he received.]
Α 12. The difficulty stated (as to the fact). “How?”
В 13-32. The difficulty met.
C 393,34. Practical application.
Α 35. The difficulty stated (as to the manner). “How?”
В 36-57. The difficulty met.
© 58. Practical application.
The structure of “B” (verses 13-32). The difficulty met.
В а — 13-18. Negative hypothesis and its consequences.
Ь — 19. Conclusion (positive) as to Christ’s in this life.
a 20-28. Positive assertion and its consequences.
Ь 29-32. Conclusion (negative) as to Christ's in this life.
The structure of “a” (verses 13-18). Negative hypothesis.
a ο 13. If no resurrection: Consequence-then Christ is not
risen.
Я — 14, 15. If Christ not risen.
Consequences:
Our preaching vain.
Your faith vain.
We false witnesses.
ο 16. If no resurrection: Consequence-then Christ is not
risen.
α 17, 18. If Christ not risen.
Consequences:
Your faith vain.
Ye yet in sins.
The dead perished.
The structure of “A” and “B” (verses 35-57). The difficulty stated.
A е 35. Question: How are the dead raised up?
f 395. Question: With what body do they come?
B # 36-49. Answer to “f.”
e 50-57. Answer to “e.”
The structure therefore of this chapter shows that verses 20-28
(“a”) are placed, practically, in a parenthesis, so that this 29th verse
reads on from the 19th verse, and continues the argument thus:-“17. If
Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. 18.
Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. 19. If in
this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.
29. Else what shall they do which are being baptized?”* [Note: Alford
(who arrives at a very different conclusion) points out that
οἱ βαπιζόµενοι (hoi baptizomenci) is the present participle and not the
past, i.e., those who are being baptized. He observes: “The distinction
is important as affecting the interpretation.”]

But here comes in the matter of punctuation. In. Rom. 8:34 we
have a very similar construction, which, if we treat it as 1Co. 15:29 is
treated in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
, would read thus, “Who is he that condemneth Christ that died?” But
the question is made to end at the word “condemneth,” and the
Ellipsis of the verb substantive is supplied thus:-“Who is he that
condemneth? /t is Christ that died” (or better, “/s it Christ who died?”
See below). Now if we treat 1Co. 15:29 in the same manner, it will
read, “What shall they do which are being baptized? /t is on behalf of
the dead if the dead rise not at all!”
From Rom. 6:1-23 we learn that our circumcision is in Christ's
death, our baptism is in Christ's burial. “Buried with Him by the
baptism of Him, (i.e., by His baptism-unto-death)’; and if He is not
raised, we cannot be raised, Rom. 6:4. (See above, pages 18, 19).
“Buried with Him in the baptism of him,” i.e., His baptism (Col.
2:11-12).

Therefore if Christ be not raised, we are not raised in Him, and our
baptism is for the dead.

Whenever we have the word νεκρός (nekros), dead, with the
article (as it is here in 1Co. 15:29), it always denotes dead bodies,
corpses. (See Gen. 23:3-6; Gen. 23:8; Gen. 23:13; Gen. 23:15. Deu.
28:26. Jer. 12:33. Eze. 37:19. Luk. 24:5.) On the contrary, when it is
without the article it denotes the persons who are dead, dead people.
(See Deu. 14:1. Mat. 22:33. Mar. 9:10. Luk. 16:30-31; Luk. 24:46. Joh.
20:9. Act. 10:41; Act. 26:23. Rom. 6:13; Rom. 10:7; Rom. 11:15. Heb.
11:19; Heb. 13:20).

So that this is an additional argument why, if Christ be not raised,
and we are buried with Him, then baptism is in the interest of those
who are to remain dead corpses, and not of risen ones, raised with
Christ.
This is the force of the word ὑπέρ (hyper). Like the English “for,” it
denotes the object of interest, not merely the subject, and ranges from
mere reference to actual substitution, e.g., 2Co. 8:23, “Whether any
enquire about Titus”; Mat. 5:44, “Pray for those who persecute you”;
Mar. 9:40, “He who is not against us is for us”; 2Co. 1:6, “Whether we
be afflicted, it is for your consolation”; Philem. 13, “That he might
minister to me instead of thee.”* [Note: See also Rom. 9:27. 20ο.
1:11; 2Co. 8:23-24. 2Th. 2:1. Col. 1:7.]

If Christ be not raised, well may those who are being baptized into
Christ's burial be asked, “What shall they do?” Truly, “Е is for the
dead.” For they will remain dead, as corpses. In this life they “die
daily” (verse 31); in death they perish (verse 18); and are thus “of all
men most miserable” (verse 19).
“What shall they do who are being baptized? /t is for the dead if
the dead rise not at all!” It is to remain dead, as corpses, without hope
of resurrection.

Thus, the expression, “baptized for the dead,” vanishes from the
Scripture, and is banished from theology; for the assumed practice is
gathered only from this passage, and is unknown to history apart from
it.
1Co. 15:48.-“As is the earthy [man, Adam] such [shall be] also they
that are earthy; and as is the heavenly [man, the Lord] such [shall be]
they also that are heavenly.”

This is clear from the verse that follows:-“And as we have borne
the image of the earthy [man, Adam] we shall also bear the image of
the heavenly [man, the Lord].” See Php. 3:21.

2Co. 11:22.-“Are they Hebrews? So am,” etc.

Eph. 3:1.-“For this cause | Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you
Gentiles,” {6., “I Paul [am] the prisoner,” etc.

Php. 4:16.-“For even [when / was] in Thessalonica ye sent once and
again unto my necessity.”
2Ti. 3:16.-“All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is
profitable.”t [Note: See this passage also under the figures of
Asyndeton and Paregmenon.]

With this we may take eight other passages, where we have the
same construction: viz., Rom. 7:12. 1Co. 11:30. 2Co. 10:10. 1Ti. 1:15;
1Ti. 2:3; 1Ti. 4:4; 1Ti. 4:9. and Heb. 4:13.

These nine passages may be taken together, and considered in
their bearing on the translation of 2Ti. 3:16 in the Revised Version,
which is as follows:-

“Every scripture inspired of God is also profitable,” etc.

In each of these passages we have the very same Greek
construction, and four of them are in the Epistles to Timothy. The A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] translates all these nine passages in precisely the same way,
and on the same principles. But the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] translates eight of them in one way ({6., like the A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ),
while it renders one on quite a different principle.

Here are the passages, and the rendering as in the Authorized
Version:-
Rom. 7:12.

ἡ ἐντολὴ The commandment
is

ayia holy

kal and

бикайа just.
1Co. 11:30.
πολλοϊ many
are

ἀσθενεῖς weak
kal and
ἄῤῥωστοι sickly.
2Co. 10:10.
ἐπιστολαί his letters
are

βαρεῖαι weighty
kal and

ioxupai powerful.
1Ti. 1:15; 1Ti. 4:9.
πιστὸς faithful

is

ὁ λόγος the saying
kal and
πάσης ἁποδοχῆς ἄξιος worthy of all acceptation.
(Ti. 2:3.

τοῦτο this

is

καλόν good

kal and

ἀπόδεκτον acceptable.

1Ti. 4:4.

πᾶν κῄσµα Θεου Every creature of God
is

καλόν good

kal and
οὐδὲν ἀπόβλητον nothing to be refused.
2Ti. 3:16.

πᾶσα γραφὴ All Scripture

is

Θεόπνευστος given by inspiration of God
kal and

ὠφέλιμος is profitable.

Heb. 4:13.

πάντα All things

are

γυμνὰ naked

kal and
τετραχηλισµένα Opened.

Now the case stands thus. The Revisers have translated eight of
these passages, which we have cited, on the same principles as the
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , ie., supplying in italics the verb substantive “is” and
“are” respectively, and taking the copulative kai, “and,” as joining
together the two predicates. But when the Revisers come to the ninth
passage (2Ti. 3:16), they separate the two conjoined predicates,
making the first a part of the subject, and then are obliged to translate
the kai in the sense of “also,” when there is nothing antecedent to it.
Thus:-

“Every scripture inspired of God is also profitable.”
Now, if the Revisers had translated the other eight passages in the
same way, the renderings would have been consistent, whatever else
they might not have been.

Rom. 7:12 would have been-

“The holy commandment is also just.”
1Co. 11:30 would have been-

“Many weak ones are also sickly.”
2Co. 10:10 would have been-

“His weighty letters are also powerful.”

1Ti. 1:15; 1Ti. 4:9 would have been-

“The faithful saying is also worthy of all acceptation.”
1Ti. 2:3 would have been-

“This good thing is also acceptable.”
1Ti. 4:4 would have been-
“Every good creature of God {5 also nothing to be refused.”

Heb. 4:13 would have been-

“All naked things are also opened,” etc.

But the Revisers do not translate them thus! And the fact that they
render the whole of these eight passages as in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ‚ and
single out 2Ti. 3:16 for different treatment, forbids us to accept the
inconsistent rendering, and deprives it of all authority. Without
inquiring as to what the motives of the Revisers may have been, we
are justified in regretting that this should be the passage singled out
for this inconsistent and exceptional treatment, reducing it to a mere
platitude. It is only fair to add that the correct rendering of the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] is given in the margin.

Philem. 11.-“Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now [is]
profitable to thee and to me.”
4. When the Participle is wanting
Num. 24:19.-” Out of Jacob shall come he that shall have dominion.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] is more literal:-“And
out of Jacob shall one have dominion.”

The Heb. is simply:-“And one shall rule (or have dominion) out of
Jacob.”

The Ellipsis of the participle being supplied, it reads:-“And one
shall rule [being born] out of Jacob.”
1Sa. 15:7.-“And Saul smote the Amalekites [dwelling] from Havilah
unto Shur.”

This refers to the region occupied by the Amalekites, and not to
the people smitten, as is clear from chap. 30.
Isa. 57:8.-“Thou hast discovered thyself to another than me,” i.e.,
“thou hast discovered thyself, departing from me,” oabi (meittee).
Eze. 11:11.-‘This city shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be the
flesh in the midst thereof; but | will judge you [scattered] in the border
of Israel.”
Mar. 7:4.-“And [on coming] from the market, they eat not except they
wash.”
Mar. 7:17.-“And when he was entered into the house [getting away]
from the people.”
Act. 13:20.-“And after that he gave unto them judges about the space
of 450 years.” Lit., “After these things [were done],” i.e., after the
division of the land by Joshua.* [Note: For the question as to the
Chronology involved in this difficulty, see Number in Scripture, by the
same author and publisher, page 5.]
2Th. 1:9.-“Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction [driven
out] from the presence of the Lord.”
Heb. 2:3.-“Which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was
confirmed unto us by them that heard him,” i.e., “which at the first
began to be spoken by the Lord, and, [being brought] unto us by them
that heard him, was confirmed,” etc.

Ill. When Certain Connected Words are omitted in the same

Member of a Passage
This particular form of Ellipsis has a distinct name, BRACHYLOGIA
(BpaxuAoyia from βραχύς, brachus, short, and λόγος, logos,
discourse), English, Bra-chyl-o-gy. Or from the Latin,
BRE VILOQUENCE, it means brevity of speech or writing, and is
used of an Ellipsis, in which words are omitted chiefly for the sake of
brevity; which words may easily be supplied from the nature of the
subject.

Gen. 25:32.-“And Esau said, Behold, | am at the point to die; and what
profit shall this birthright do to me?” There must be supplied, the
thought, if not the words:-“I will sell it.” So with the next verse. “And
Jacob said, Swear to me this day [that thou wilt sell it me]; and he
sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob.”

Gen. 45:12.-“And behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother
Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you.” Lit., it is,
“because my mouth σὐοφή, kee phee) is speaking unto you.” If
we supply the Ellipsis, we may retain this literal rendering.

Joseph had been speaking of his glory (verse 8): but, on the
principle of Pro. 27:2 : “Let another man praise thee, and not thine
own mouth,” he breaks off and says, “Now, behold, your eyes are
seeing, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin; because my own mouth
is speaking unto you [/ cannot speak of all my glory], but ye shall
declare to my father all my glory in Egypt, and all that ye have seen,”
i.e., They were to describe what he could not well say of himself.

2Ki. 19:9.-“And when he had heard say of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia,
Behold, he is come out to fight against thee: [he turned his army
against him; and, having conquered him, he returned to Jerusalem,
and] he sent messengers again unto Hezekiah.”

2Ki. 22:18.-“Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, As touching the words
which thou hast heard.”

So the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] but without italics.
But surely the sense is:-“Thus saith the Lord God of Israel: The words
which thou (Josiah) hast heard [shall surely come to pass, buf]
because thine heart was tender, and thou hast humbled thyself,” etc.
... ‘thou shalt be gathered into thy grave in peace; and thine eyes
shall not see all the evil which | will bring upon this place.”
1Ch. 18:10.-“He sent Hadoram his son to king David, to enquire of his
welfare, and to congratulate him, because he had fought against
Hadarezer, and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had war with Tou;) and
with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] supplies “and he had
with him.” But the Ellipsis is to be supplied from 2Sa. 8:10, thus, “And
all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass were in his hand”
(ήτο Πὔε).
Eze. 47:13.-“Joseph shall have two portions,” i.e., shall inherit.
Mat. 21:22.-“All things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing,
ye shall receive,” i.e., add “if it be His will.” Compare Mat. 26:39-44;
Jos. 5:14-15; 1Jn. 5:14-15. This is the one abiding condition of all real
prayer, and the Ellipsis must be thus supplied wherever it is found.
In Mar. 5:1-43 we have by way of illustration three prayers-
1. In verses 12, 13. “The devils besought him,” and “Jesus gave
them leave.”
2. In verse 17. The Gadarenes “began to pray him to depart out
of their coasts.” And Jesus left them.
3. In verses 18, 19. “He that had been possessed with the devil
prayed him that he might be with him. Howbeit Jesus suffered
him not.”
“No!” is an answer to prayer | and often, very often, a most
gracious and loving answer too. No greater calamity could come upon
us than for God to answer “Yes” to all our ignorant requests. Better to
have our prayers refused with this man who had been the subject of
His grace and love and power, than to have them answered with
Devils and Gadarenes.

Mat. 25:9.-“But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not
enough for us and you;” i.e., “But the wise answered, By no means,
for look, there will not be enough, &c., or we cannot give to you, lest,
&с.”

Mar. 14:49.-“But the Scriptures must be fulfilled.” The Greek is, “But
that the Scriptures may be fulfilled.” The R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] correctly supplies the Ellipsis, “But this is done that
the Scriptures should be fulfilled.” (Compare Mat. 26:56.)

Luk. 7:43.-“Simon answered and said, | suppose that he to whom he
forgave most [will love him mosf].”

Joh. 2:18.-“What sign showest thou unto us [that thou art the
Messiah], seeing that thou doest these things?” As in Jdg. 6:17,
Gideon says, “Show me a sign that thou [art Jehovah that] talkest with
me.”
Joh. 7:38.-“He that believeth on me, as the Scripture hath said, out of
his belly shall flow rivers of living water.”

The difficulties of this verse are great, as may be seen by a
reference to the commentators. It will be noted that a comparison is
suggested by the word καθώς (kathds), like as, and that there is an
Ellipsis which must be supplied. Bengel suggests “as the Scripture
hath said so it shall be,” or “so shall it be.” But something more is
evidently required. Is there not a reference to the Haphtarah, i.e., the
portion selected (from the Prophets) as the lesson to be read on the
first day of the Feast of Tabernacles, which was Zec. 14:1-21?* [Note:
The portion from the Law (Act. 13:15) read in conjunction with this was
Lev. 22:26-33; Lev. 23:1-44; with Num. 29:12-16.] The Lord was not
present then, for it was not until “the midst of the feast” that He went
up (verse 14). But in “the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus
stood and cried,” with evident reference to the Scripture which had
been read, “He that believeth on me (as the Scripture hath said
[concerning Jerusalem: so shall it be]) out of his heart rivers of living
water shall flow.” What the Scripture had said concerning Jerusalem in
Zec. 14:8 was this:-“And it shall be in that day, that living waters shall
go out from Jerusalem; half of them toward the former sea, and half of
them toward the hinder sea,” &c. To this agree the words of the
prophecy in Eze. 47:1-11. These prophecies shall yet be literally
fulfilled with regard to Jerusalem: and what will then actually take place
illustrates what takes place now in the experience of every one who
believes in Jesus. Even as those rivers will flow forth from Jerusalem
in that day, so now the Holy Spirit, in all His wondrous powers, and
gifts, and graces, flows forth from the inward parts-the new nature of
the believer.

Joh. 13:18.-“I speak not of you all: | know whom | have chosen: but [/
have done this] that the Scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth
bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me.” Compare verses
26-30.
Joh. 15:25.-“But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled
that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause.” The
abbreviated expression emphasizes the statement to which we are
thus hastened on. And our attention is called to the fact that δωρεάν
(абгеап) here rendered “without a cause” is in Rom. 3:24 rendered
“freely.”-“Being justified freely by his grace”: /.е., there was no more
cause why we should be “justified” than there was why Jesus should
be “hated”!

Joh. 15:27.-“Ye have been with me from the beginning [and are still
with me].” Compare 16:4, and see 1Jn. 3:8 below.

Rom. 9:16.-Here the reference is to Esau and Jacob, spoken of in
verses 10-13, and to the history as recorded in Gen. 27:3-4.

“So then [election is] not of him who willeth [as /заас wished to
bless Esau according to “the will of the flesh’* [Note: As Jacob was
asked to bless Ephraim and Manasseh according to “the will of man”
(Joseph) (Gen. 48:7-14). Both cases are instanced in Heb. 11:20-21
as acts of “Faith,” i.e., faith’s exercise of gifts contrary to “the will of the
flesh,” as in the case of Isaac; and contrary to “the will of man” in the
case of Jacob.] ], nor of him that runneth [as Esau ran for venison that
his father might eat, and bless him], but of God who showeth mercy.”
1Co. 9:4.-“Have we not power to eat and to drink [at the expense of
our converts or of the Church]?” Without this there is no sequence in
the apostle’s argument. Or we may supply [without working with our
own hands], see verses 6 and 7.
20ο. 5:3.-“If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked.”

Here the blessed hope of Resurrection is described as being
clothed upon with the heavenly body. This is the subject which
commences at 2Co. 4:14. In chap. 5:3 the kai is ignored in both A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] The Greek is, “If
indeed BEING CLOTHED also, we shall not be found naked [as some
among you say].” There were some among the Corinthians who said
“there is no resurrection of the dead” (1Co. 15:12; 1Co. 15:35), and
here those assertions are thus referred to.
Gal. 2:9.-“They gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of
fellowship; that we unto the heathen, and they unto the circumcision,
[should carry the apostolic message and decrees].”
Eph. 4:29.-Here the word εἰ (ei) if is omitted in the translation both in
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] Not
observing the Ellipsis, the word “if? was omitted to make sense.

With the “if” retained, the Ellipsis is properly supplied thus:-
“Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but, if
any [speech be] good to the use of edifying, [/et it be spoken] that it
may minister grace unto the hearers.”

Php. 4:11.-“I have learned in whatsoever state | am, therewith to be
content.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] reads “therein to be
content,” without italics. But what is he to be content with? Surely not
content with the circumstances, but with the will of God. So that the
verse will read, “I have learned, in whatsoever state | am, to be
content with [the will of Goa].”
1Jn. 3:8.-“The devil sinneth from the beginning [and still sinneth].”

IV. When a Whole Clause is omitted in a Connected Passage

1. When the first member of a clause is omitted
Mat. 16:7.-“And they reasoned among themselves, saying, /t is
because we have taken no bread.”
Here the first member of the latter clause is wanting. It is supplied
in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] by the words “It is.” The R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] , not seeing this Ellipsis, has boldly omitted the oti
(hoti) because, and_ translated:-“And they reasoned among
themselves, saying, We took no bread” (giving the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] in the
margin).

The Ellipsis of the first member is properly filled up thus:-“And they
reasoned among themselves, saying [Jesus spoke thus, verse 6],
because we have taken no bread.”

See further under Hypocatastasis.

Mar. 3:30.-“Because they said, He hath an unclean spirit.” Here the
first clause is omitted:-“[Jesus said this unto them], because they said,
He hath an unclean spirit.”

Luk. 9:13.-“He said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said,
We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go
and buy meat for all this people.”

There is something wanting here, which may be thus
supplied:-“We have no more than five loaves and two fishes;
[therefore we are not able to give to them to eat] except we should go
and buy meat for all this people.”

Joh. 5:7.-“The impotent man answered him, Sir, [/ am indeed willing,
but], | have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the
pool,” etc.

2Th. 2:3.-“Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall
not come, except there come a falling away first.” (Lit., the apostasy.)
The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] fills up the Ellipsis of the
prior member, by the words “it will not be,” which is weak and tame
compared with the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.]

What is referred to is the day of the Lord,* [Note: Not “the day of
Christ,” as in A.V. The R.V. and the Ancient mss. and Critical Texts
read correctly “the day of the Lord.”] mentioned in the preceding
verse. “Let no man deceive you by any means: for [the day of the Lord
shall not come] except there come the falling away first:” i.e., the great
apostasy, which is the subject of many prophecies, must precede the
day of the Lord. But it does not precede the day of Christ. Hence the
saints in Thessalonica might well be troubled if the day of the Lord had
set in, and they had not been previously gathered together to meet the
Lord in the air in the day of Christ, as had been promised (1Th.
4:16-17; 2Th. 2:1).¢ [Note: See Four Prophetic Periods, by the same
author and publisher.]

This is not the popular teaching, but it is the truth of God. Popular
theology is very different. It says, “That day cannot come until the
world’s conversion comes.” The Scripture says it cannot come until
the apostasy shall have come. Popular theology says the world is not
good enough yet for Christ to come. The Scripture teaches that the
world is not yet bad enough! The Thessalonian saints believed their
teachers, and are an example for all time for holiness of walk and for
missionary zeal. People to-day believe their teachers, and all men see
their works!

2. The Ellipsis of a latter clause, called Anantapodoton, i.e.,

without apodosis*

[Note: Apodosis, Greek a???????, a giving back again: hence, it is
the consequent clause. The former clause is called the Protasis
(22222222, to stretch before).]

It is a hypothetical proposition without the consequent clause.
Gen. 30:27.-“And Laban said unto him, | pray thee, if | have found
favour in thine eyes [remain with me: for] | have learned by experience
that the Lord hath blessed me for thy sake.”
2Sa. 2:27.-“And Joab said [to Abner], As God liveth, unless thou hadst
spoken [the words which gave the provocation (see verse 14)], surely
then in the morning the people had gone up (marg. [Note: arg.
Margin.] gone away) every one from following his brother.”
2Sa. 5:6-8.-The Ellipsis here involves a retranslation of this difficult
passage:-“And the king and his men went to Jerusalem, unto the
Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land: Which spake unto David,
saying,t [Note: Both the A.V. and the Π.Ν. transpose the following two
sentences.] Thou shalt not come in hither, for (or but, nn aH, kee
eem, see Psa. 1:3-4; ‘for, Pro. 23:18; Lam. 5:22) the blind and lame
shall drive thee away (so Coverdale) by saying (МаОШ, /aimér,
saying, margin), David shall not come in hither. Nevertheless, David
took the stronghold of Zion; the same is the city of David. And David
said on that day, Whosoever getteth up by the Tsinnor,t [Note:
Ounew (batsinnor) in, or by the Tsinnor, which was an
underground watercourse, recently discovered by Sir Charles Warren.
See his Recovery of Jerusalem, pp. 107, 109, 124.] and smiteth the
Jebusites, and the lame and the blind, who hate David’s soul (Π.Ν.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] margin); he shall be chief or
captain, because they (the blind and the lame) had said, He shall not
come into the house (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin),” or citadel.

The Ellipsis is supplied from 1Ch. 11:6; and thus, with one or two
simple emendations, the whole passage is made clear.

It would seem that the citadel was so strong that the Jebusites put
their blind and lame there, who defended it by merely crying out,
“David shall not come in hither.”

Mat. 6:25.-“Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?
[and if God vouchsafes the greater, how much more that which is
less].”

Mat. 8:9.-“For | am a man under authority, having soldiers under me:
and | say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and
he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it [how much
more art Thou, who art God, able to command, or to speak the word
only that my servant may recover).”

Mar. 11:32.-“But if we shall say, Of men: [what will happen to us?] for,
they feared the people.” Or we may supply, “it will not be wise.”
Luk. 2:21.-“And when eight days were accomplished for the
circumcising of the child [then they circumcised him, and] his name
was called JESUS.”

Joh. 3:2.-“Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for
no man can do these miracles which thou doest, except God be with
him: [therefore am | come to thee, that thou mayest teach me the way
of salvation].”

Joh. 6:62.-“What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where
he was before?”

Here the Apodosis is entirely wanting. The Greek reads simply “If
then ye should see the Son of man ascending up where he was
before?” The thought is the same as in Joh. 3:12 : “If | have told you
earthly things and ye believe not, how shall ye believe if | tell you of
heavenly things?” So that the apodosis may be supplied thus, “will ye
believe then?” or, “ye will not be offended then,” i.e., ye will marvel
then not at My doctrine but at your own unbelief of it. Compare 8:28
and 3:13. (But see further under the figure of Aposiopesis).
Rom. 9:22-24.-Here we have a remarkable anantapodoton. The
conclusion of the argument is omitted. It begins with “if (verse 22),
and the apodosis must be supplied at the end of verse 24 from verse
20, i.e., if God chooses to do this or that “who art thou that repliest
against God?” What have you to say?

Or, indeed, we may treat it as the Ellipsis of a prior member, in
which case verse 22 would commence “[what reply hast thou to
make], if God, willing to show his wrath,” etc.

Jam. 2:13.-“For he shall have judgment without mercy, that hath
showed no mercy; and mercy rejoiceth against judgment [to him that
hath showed mercy].”

2Pe. 2:4.-The apodosis is wanting here, but it is difficult to supply it
without breaking the argument; which is, “If God spared not the angels
that sinned,” neither will he spare the false prophets and teachers,
mentioned in verse 1.

It is deferred till verse 12, where we have it:-they “shall utterly
perish in their own corruption.”

3. When the Comparison is wanting. This is a kind of
anantapodoton
Rom. 7:3.-In verses 2 and 3 the hypothesis is given in which the
husband dies, while in verse 4 the fact to be illustrated is the case in
which the wife dies. Death ending the power of the marriage-law in
each case.

At the end of verse 3, therefore, the other hypothesis must be
supplied (mentally if not actually):-

“If her husband be dead, she is free from that law; so that she is
no adulteress, though she be married to another man [and | need not
say that if she be dead, she is, of course, free from that law].
Wherefore, my brethren, ye also have died to the law through the
body of Christ; that ye should be joined to another, even to him who is
raised from the dead,” {6., God’s people have died in Christ; and, on
the other side of death, have risen with Christ, and are united to Him.
Thus being dead with Christ, the Law has no longer any dominion
over them, and they are free to be united to another, “being dead to
that wherein we were held” (verse 6, margin, and, R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ). Compare the following Scriptures on this
important doctrine:- Rom. 8:2; Rom. 6:1-11; Gal. 2:19; Gal. 5:18; Gal.
6:14; Col. 2:14; Col. 3:3; 1Pe. 2:24. This figure comes under the head
of Rhetoric, and is then called Enthymema (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
1Ti. 1:3-4.-“As | besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when | went
into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no
other doctrine, Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies,
which minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is in faith
[so ! repeat my charge, that thou remain at Ephesus, etc.]”
2Ti. 2:20.-“In a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of
silver, but also of wood and of earth, and, some to honour; and some
to dishonour: [so in the great house of the church there are not only
the elect saints, which are the vessels of honour, but there are the
impious and reprobate, who are the vessels of dishonour].” Therefore
the admonition follows, in verse 21, to purge ourselves from these;
i.e., not from the vessels of gold and silver, or wood and earth, but
from persons. Still less does it say we are to purge the persons or the
assembly! Each one is to “purge himself,” not the others.

We now come to the second great division.

B. Relative Ellipsis:

Where the omitted word must be supplied from the words actually
related to it and employed in the context itself.
|. Where the omitted Word is supplied from a COGNATE Word
occurring in the Immediate Context
1. Where the Noun is suggested by the Verb
Lev. 4:2.-‘If a soul shall sin through ignorance against any of the
commandments of the Lord concerning things which ought not to be
done.”

Here the verb “shall sin” supplies the noun “sins,” i.e., “concerning
sins which ought not to be done.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] evades the difficulty
by a freer translation. But the correct supply of the Ellipsis enables us
to retain the literal translation.

Num. 11:14.-“I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is
too heavy for me.”

Here the noun is latent in the verb, and is naturally supplied by it
thus:-“I am not able to bear the burden of all this people alone,
because it is too heavy for me.” The word “it” does not refer to the
People, but to the burden of them.

In verse 17 it is translated fully.
2Ki. 17:14.-“Notwithstanding they would not hear, but hardened their
necks, like to the neck of their fathers,” i.e., like to the hardness of the
necks of their fathers.
Psa. 13:3 (4).-“Lighten mine eyes, lest | sleep the death,” {6., the
sleep of death.
Psa. 76:11.-“Vow, and pay unto the Lord your God,” i.e., pay your
vows.
Psa. 107:41.-“And maketh him families like a flock.”

Lit., maketh like a flock the families.

The two parallel lines are thus completed by supplying the
Ellipsis:-

“Yet setteth he the poor on high from (or, after) affliction,

And maketh like a flock the families [of the afflicted].”
Hos. 9:4.-“They shall not offer wine to the Lord,” i.e., wine offerings.
As in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.]
Gal. 4:24.-“Which things are an allegory: for these [two women] are
the two covenants; the one, indeed, from the mount Sinai, which
bringeth forth [children] into bondage, which is Hagar.” The apodosis
or conclusion is suspended till verse 26. “But Jerusalem which is
above is the free [woman], who is the mother of us all.” In verse 25, it
must be noted that the word “this” is the article τό, which is neuter,
while “Hagar” is feminine. Τό, therefore, must agree with some neuter
word, which must be supplied, such as ὄνομα (onoma) name:-“For
this [name] Hagar is (or, denotes) Mount Sinai in Arabia.” It is a fact
that in Arabia the word Hagar (which means a stone) is the name for
Mount Sinai.
2. Where the Verb is to be supplied from the Noun

1Sa. 13:8.-“And he tarried seven days, according to the time that
Samuel [had appointed].”
1Ch. 17:18.-“What can David speak more to thee for the honour of thy
servant?” i.e., the honour put upon thy servant.
Psa. 94:10.-“He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he
that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know?”

Compare verse 9, where we have similar questions.
Hos. 1:2.-“Go, take thee a wife of whoredoms and children of
whoredoms.”

The sense, as we see from verses 3, 6, and 8, must be “and
[bege?] children,” etc.
Mic. 7:3.-“The prince asketh, and the judge asketh for a reward.”

Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] supplies the Ellipsis by repeating the previous
verb. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] supplies it with the
verb “is ready,” i.e., “the judge is ready for a reward.”

But the verb is latent in the noun (“judge”) and is to be supplied
from it, thus:-

“The prince asketh, and the judge judgeth for a reward.”

The subject of the former sentence must be supplied from the
latter, and then the two lines will read thus:-

“The prince asketh for [a reward],
And the judge [judgeth] for a reward.”
Rom. 12:6-8.-“Having then gifts differing according to the grace given
to us, whether prophecy, /et us prophesy according to the proportion
of the faith [given or dealt to us, verse 3].” The verbs must also be
supplied in the following, exhortations:-“Or ministry, [/et us be diligent]
in the ministry: or he that teacheth, [/et him be faithful] in teaching; or
he who exhorteth, [/et him employ himself] in exhortation: he Who
distributeth, [/et him distribute] with simplicity; he who presideth, [εί
him preside] with care; he that showeth mercy, [/et him show if] with
cheerfulness.”

In the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ,
some are supplied and some are not.

Rom. 13:7.-“Render therefore to all their dues; tribute to whom tribute
is due, etc.”

Here the verb {ο be due is latent in the noun dues.
1Co. 1:26.-“For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise
men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called.”

Here the thought or subject is the “calling’-the act of calling, i.e.,
not the persons who are called, but the persons who call. The
following verses go on to explain the manner in which God calls: viz.,
by choosing the weak and the base to confound the wise and the
mighty. So in like manner He had chosen weak instruments like Paul,
Apollos and Cephas to call the saints in Corinth, and to produce such
wondrous results, in order “that no flesh should glory in His presence.”
The Ellipsis would in this case be better supplied thus:-“Not many
wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble call you.”
2Co. 5:17.-“Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature.”
Here the verb substantive is supplied twice, but the verb created
must be supplied from the noun “creature”:-“If any man be in Christ,
[he is created] a new creature.”
Or else there is only one Ellipsis, and the sentence reads on, thus:
“If any man be in Christ a new creation, old things have passed away;
behold, all things are become new.”
Eph. 3:16.-‘[Praying] that he would grant you,” from “bowing my
knees” in verse 14.
Il. Where the omitted Word is to be supplied from a CONTRARY
Word
Gen. 33:10.-“And Jacob [refused and] said, etc.”
This word is latent in the contrary words which follow.

Gen. 33:15.-“And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the
folk that are with me. And he [Jacob] said, What needeth it? [Thou
shalt not leave any],” etc.

Gen. 49:4.-“Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel.”

R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.]
, ‘Bubbling over as water, thou shalt not have the excellency.”

The word rendered “unstable” is φβλς (pachaz), to bubble up and
overflow, to flow down like water. (So Sam. and Syr.). The Ellipsis is
supplied from the contrary words, “Flowing down like water [it shall
pass away), thou shalt not have the excellency.”

This follows on verse 3. “Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might,
and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the
excellency of power, with rapidity, like water, [all this shall pass away],
thou shalt not have the excellency!”

And so it came to pass. See 1Ch. 5:1.

Jdg. 5:6.-Here, because the Ellipsis has not been observed, liberties
have been taken in the translation. The Heb. is literally “In the days of
Jael the high-ways ceased” (as in verse 7).
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our

English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
both render, “The high-ways were unoccupied.” The R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] tries to preserve the correctness of
translation by giving in the margin “the caravans ceased.”

But the Ellipsis when supplied by the contrary words which follow
makes all clear:-“In the days of Jael, the highways ceased [fo be safe],
and the travellers walked through by-ways.”

Psa. 7:11.-“God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the
wicked every day.”
Psa. 65:8.-“Thou makest the outgoings of the morning and of the
evening to rejoice.”

This does not mean the outgoings of the evening as well as the
morning. The contrary word must be supplied, viz., “[the incomings or
return] of the evening.”

Psa. 66:20.-“Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer,
nor his mercy from me.” This is not “my prayer from me,” but “my
prayer [from himself].”

Psa. 84:10.-“For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand
[elsewhere, or in any other place].”
Pro. 19:1.-“Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than [the
rich, that is] perverse in his lips, and is a fool.”

Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] has supplied “he that is.” It is necessary merely
to define the person as rich to complete the contrast which is clearly
implied.

Pro. 24:17-18.-“Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine
heart be glad when he stumbleth: lest the Lord see it, and it displease
him, and he turn away his wrath from him [to thee].”

Without the supply of this Ellipsis “to thee,” there is no sense in the
words.

Pro. 28:16.-“The prince that lacketh understanding [and] also a great
oppressor [shall cut off his days], but he that hateth covetousness,
shall prolong his days.”

Jer. 18:15.-“My people hath forgotten me, they have burned incense
to vanity, and they have caused them to stumble in their ways [so that
they forsake] the ancient paths,” etc.

Dan. 3:15.-Here the Ellipsis is so patent that it is supplied. “Now if ye
be ready that at what time ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp,
sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer, and all kinds of music, ye fall down
and worship the image which | have made; [well and good].” Compare
Luk. 13:9.

Luk. 13:9.-“And if it bear fruit, wel/; and if not, then, after that thou
shalt cut it down.”

Here the omitted verb is suggested by the contrary verb that is
given. Thus: “If it bear fruit [hou shalt leave it to stand, or shalt not cut
it down], and if not, after that, thou shalt cut it down.”

See further under the figure of Aposiopesis.

Rom. 6:17.-“But God be thanked, that ye were the servants of sin, but
ye have obeyed,” etc.

Here the word δέ (de), but, in the latter clause implies and points
us to the word μέν (men) which is omitted in the former clause. The
two go together in a sentence of this character, and the employment of
the one reveals the omission of the other. It should be rendered:-“But
God be thanked that [a/though] ye were the servants of sin, yet ye
have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered
unto you.”
This is clearly the sense, for we are not to thank God that we were
the servants of sin, but that, though we were, we are so no longer.*
[Note: For the importance of this word μέν (men), although, compare
1Ре. 4:6, where both the A.V. and Π.Ν. ignore it, though it is there in
the Greek, thus translating the words:-“For this cause was the gospel
preached to them that are dead also, that they might be judged
according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit.”
Surely, it cannot be that the gospel was preached in order that men
might be judged! And it is unaccountable why the A.V. and R.V. should
both altogether ignore the important word μέν (men), although, and
leave it untranslated!

They have both created an Ellipsis in the English, though there is
none in the Greek, which reads iva κριθῶσι μέν (hina krithosi men), “in
order that, though they might be condemned according to the will of
mena as to the flesh, yet they might live (ζῶσι δὲ, 2651 de) according
to the will of God, as to the spirit.” That is to say, the gospel was
preached to those who had since died, not “that they might be judged”
thus, but “that THOUGH they might be judged.” (See a pamphlet on
The Spirits in Prison, by the same author and publisher.)]
1Co. 7:19.-“Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing,
but the keeping of the commandments of God [is everything],” i.e.,
alone avails.
2Co. 8:14.-“But by an equality, that now at this time your abundance
may be a supply for their want, that [at another time] their abundance
also may be a supply for your want, that there may be equality.”
1Ti. 4:3.-“Forbidding to marry [and commanding] to abstain from
meats.” (See under Zeugma.)
Ill. Where the omitted Word is to be supplied from ANALOGOUS,
or RELATED Words

Gen. 50:23.-“The children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were
brought up upon Joseph’s knees.” Margin, borne. R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] , born.

But the Ellipsis of relation is:-“[and educated] at Joseph's knees.”
Exo. 13:15.-“Therefore | sacrifice to the Lord all [beasts],” etc.
Lev. 21:4.-“But he being a chief man [a priest] among his people, shall
not defile himself [for his wife] to profane himself.”

See verse 14; and Eze. 24:16-17.
Deu. 15:12.-“And if thy brother, [or thy sister], an Hebrew man, or an
Hebrew woman, be sold unto thee,” etc.
Psa. 142:4.-Ί looked on my right hand, and beheld [on my left hana.”
Isa. 30:17.-“One thousand shall flee at the rebuke of one; at the
rebuke of five shall ye [all] flee.”

Isa. 38:12.-“I have cut off as a weaver my life,” i.e., | have cut off my
life as a weaver [his thread].

Mat. 3:4.-“And a leathern girdle [was bound] about his loins.” In Joh.
7:39, the verb given is rightly supplied in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] : “For
the Holy Spirit was not yet given.”

Rom. 14:21.-“It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor any
thing whereby thy brother stumbleth,” ᾖθ., nor to do any thing
whereby, etc.

The point is not merely abstaining from the use of anything that
other people abuse, but from that which is a cause of stumbling to the
weak conscience of the brother in Christ, who thought it wrong to eat
or drink that which has been offered to an idol.

Rom. 16:16.-“Salute one another with an holy kiss.”
Here, the fact that ἀλλήλους (alleelous) is masculine, and the
undoubted and overwhelming testimony of the Primitive Church,
necessitate an Ellipsis; which must certainly be understood, if not
actually supplied. It was, and is, contrary to all Eastern usage for
women (who were always covered, 1Co. 11:5) and men to kiss each
other indiscriminately. The Ellipsis understood is:-“Salute one another
[men and women respectively] with a holy kiss.”

The Apostolical Constitutions (Cent. Ill.) say:-“Let the men salute
one another (masc.), and the women one another (fem.), with a kiss.”

In this sense are to be understood also 1Co. 16:20; 2Co. 13:12;
1Th. 5:26; 1Pe. 5:14.* [Note: For an exhaustive treatment of the whole
subject, see a work, entitled Salute One Another, by the Rev. Jas.
Neil, M.A. Lond.: Simpkin and Marshall.]

IV. Where the omitted Word is contained in another Word, the
One combining the two Significations
This has been called Metalepsis: but this is hardly correct; for
Metalepsis (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ) is a compound Metonomy, and а
Metonomy has to do only with nouns. It has also been called
Syntheton, or Synthesis (Latin, Compositio), which signifies the
placing of two things together. (See under the Figure of Metonymy). It
has also a Latin name: “Concisa Locutio,” i.e., a concise form of
speech, or abbreviated expression.

It is also called Constructio Praegnans, when the verb thus derives
an additional force.

Gen. 12:15.-“And the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house.”

Here the figure is translated, for МЧЗ (laqach) signifies to catch,
or capture. (Gen. 14:12. Num. 21:25. Deu. 3:14; Deu. 29:7. 1Sa.
19:14; 1Sa. 19:20. Isa. 52:5. Jer. 48:46). And here the two senses are
combined (take, in the sense of catch, and take, in the sense of /ead),
to take possession of, and lead into, i.e., “The woman was taken [and
brought] into Pharaoh’s house.”

See for a similar use, seized, or caught and led, or taken and

brought, etc., Gen. 15:9-10. Exo. 18:2; Exo. 25:2; Exo. 27:20. Num.
19:2. Est. 2:16.
Gen. 43:33.-“And the men marvelled one at another.” They did not
marvel one at another, but, marvelling at what Joseph did, they looked
one at another. The two senses are contained in the one verb,
thus:-“And the men marvelled [and looked] one at another.”
In verse 34, the two senses are translated both in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , “and he took and sent
messes unto them from before him.” For this use of the verb puja
(nahsah) to take, see also Exo. 18:12; Exo. 25:2; Exo. 28:20, etc.

Exo. 23:18; Exo. 34:25.-Here the Hebrew *63 (zavach) to sacrifice,
or slay, is not literally translated, but the two senses, s/ay and pour out
(the blood) are combined in the one word “offer.”

The Heb. TM (al) is also in consequence translated with, instead

of upon. The result is that there is no sense in the translation. The
filling up of the Ellipsis preserves the literal signification of the other
words as well as the sense of the verse, thus:-“Thou shalt not slay
[and pour out] the blood of my sacrifice upon leavened bread.”
Lev. 17:3.-“What man soever there be of the house of Israel that
killeth an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or that killeth it out of the
camp, and bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation ... blood shall be imputed unto that man ... that man
shall be cut off from among his people.”
This appears to be quite at variance with Deu. 12:15; Deu. 12:21,
which expressly declares, “Thou mayest kill and eat flesh in all thy
gates, whatsoever thy soul lusteth after.”

The difficulty is at once removed by supplying the second sense
which is included in the same word, “that killeth [in sacrifice].”

Num. 25:1.-Here, through not seeing the Ellipsis, AM (el) which
means fo, is translated with.

“And the people began to commit whoredom with the daughters of
Moab,” i.e., they “began to commit whoredom [and to join themselves]
to the daughters of Moab.”

Jos. 8:29.-“Joshua commanded that they should raise thereon a great
heap of stones that remaineth unto this day.”

Here, as well as in 10:27, the Ellipsis is supplied.
2Ch. 32:1.-“And thought to win them for himself.”-

Here MOUTH amie (I'vikam eylayo) means (as given in the
margin) to break them up, but this being “for himself,” conveyed no
sense; so the translation of the verb, which means “break up,” was
modified to “win,” in order to agree with the preposition “for.” But the
correct supply of the Ellipsis makes the meaning clear, and enables us
to retain the literal sense of the verb:-He “encamped against the
fenced cities, and thought to break them up [and annex them] to
himself,” or “thought to rend them [from the kingdom of Judah, and
annex them] to himself.”
Ezr. 2:62.-Here the figure is translated. The Heb., as given in the
margin, reads literally, “Therefore they were polluted from the
priesthood.” This is translated, “Therefore were they, as polluted, put
from the priesthood.” But a more correct translation of the figure would
be: “Therefore they were polluted [and put] from the priesthood.”
Psa. 21:12.-We have already noted the Ellipsis of the accusative in
this verse, “thine arrows.” Now we have the Ellipsis, in the same
verse, of the second signification of the verb:-“When thou shalt make
ready thine arrows upon thy bowstrings [and shoot them] against their
face.”
Psa. 22:21.-“Thou hast heard me [and delivered me], from the horns
of the unicorns.”

So Psa. 118:5, where the Ellipsis is correctly supplied. See also
Heb. verse 7, below.
Psa. 55:18.-“He hath delivered my soul in peace.” R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] : “He hath redeemed my soul in peace.”

The sense is obtained by supplying the Ellipsis-‘He hath
redeemed my soul [and set if] in peace.”

Psa. 63:8.-“My soul followeth hard after thee.”

Here to get the sense, the Heb. r6ug (dahvgah), which means to
cleave, to stick (see Gen. 2:24. Deu. 28:60. Psa. 119:31. Lam. 4:4), is
translated followeth hard, in order to combine it with ЭЗШИК,
(achareyach) after thee. “My soul followeth hard after thee.” The
supply of the Ellipsis makes the sense clear and retains the literal
meaning of the words, thus:-“My soul cleaveth to [and followeth] after
thee.”

Psa. 66:14.-The Heb. is:-“Which my lips have opened.” See margin.
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] translates freely, “Which my lips have uttered.” But the
sense is:-“Which (vows) my lips have opened [and vowed].”

Psa. 68:18.-“Thou hast received gifts for men.” The Heb. is:-“Thou
hast received gifts among men,” ᾖ6., “Thou hast received [and given]
gifts among men”; compare Eph. 4:8.

Psa. 73:27.-“Thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from
thee.”

To make sense we must read:-“Thou hast destroyed all them that
go a whoring, [departing] from thee,” i.e., “Thou hast destroyed all
them that practise idolatry, departing from thee.”
Psa. 89:39.-Here the Ellipsis is supplied. “Thou hast profaned his
crown [by Casting if] to the ground.”

Psa. 104:22.-“The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and
lay them down in their dens.” The Heb. is:-“And unto their dens
(eamOoTepbh) they lie down,” i.e., “The sun ariseth, they gather
themselves together, [depart, and] lay themselves down in their dens.”
Pro. 25:22.-The Heb. reads:-“For coals of fire thou shalt receive upon
his head,” i.e., “for coals of fire thou Shalt receive [and place] upon his
head.”

The verb ЗЪД (chathah) means to take hold of, to seize, spoken
once of a person, Isa. 52:5 (7), and elsewhere always of taking up fire
or burning coals. See Isa. 30:14. Pro. 6:27. 1.е., the coals of fire which
thine enemy casts at thee, thou shalt take them and put them upon his
head: he will thus get what he intended for thee.

The “burning coals” are put by Metonymy (q.v. [Νοίε: Which see.] )
for cruel words and hard speeches (see Pro. 16:27; Pro. 26:23).

Psa. 140:9-10. But if thou doest good to him who uses cruel words
of you, that will burn him as coals of fire.
Mat. 4:5.-“Then the Devil taketh him up into the holy city.”
Παραλαμβάνω (paralamban6é) means to take and bring with one’s self,
to join one’s self. There is no equivalent for “up.” The double sense of
the verse must be supplied in the Ellipsis:-“Then the Devil taketh him
with himself [and leadeth] him,” etc. So verse 8 and 27:27. The sense
is sometimes completed by a second verb, Mat. 2:13; Mat. 2:20. Joh.
19:16. Act. 23:18.
Mat. 5:23.-“Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there
rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee”; {6., “if thou
bring thy gift [even thy sacrifice] to the altar.” An offering was the only
gift that could be brought to an altar. In Lev. 2:1-2, the Septuagint
translates, “If a soul bring a gift, a sacrifice, to the Lord, his gift shall
be,” etc., and thus supplies the explanatory words. To apply these
words to the placing money on the Lord’s Table is a perverse use of
language.
Luk. 4:1-2.-“And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost returned from
Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, being forty days
tempted of the devil.”

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] connects the forty days with the temptation: but
we learn from Mat. 4:3 that it was not till after the forty days that the
tempter came to Him, when He was hungry. The words are elliptical,
and are a concisa locutio, i.e., an abbreviated expression, in order that
our thought may dwell on the fact of the /eading, rather than on the
fact of His being there.

The Greek is:-“He was being led by the Spirit into the wilderness,
[and was in the wilderness] forty days.”
Luk. 4:38.-“And he arose out of the synagogue,” i.e., “And rising up
[he departed] out* [Note: The ancient reading was ἀγὸ, from,
supported by the Critical Texts of Tischendorf, Tregelles, Alford, and
Westcott and Hort. It was altered later by some copyist who did not
see the force of the figure, so as to make it agree better with the single
verb employed.] of the synagogue, and entered into the house of
Simon.” By this figure our attention is directed to the fact which is
important, viz., His rising up, and thus preventing any comment on the
miracle; rather than to the mere act of going out of the synagogue.
Luk. 18:14.- tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather
than the other.”
The Greek reads, “This man went down to his house justified than
the other,” but the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] correctly supplies the disjunction
contained in the comparative ἤ (ee), when following a positive
assertion. The thought lies in the Heb. use of the word ОП (min), Psa.
118:8-9 : “It is better to trust in the Lord than [i.e., and пой to put
confidence in man. /t is better to trust in the Lord than [i.e., and пой to
put confidence in princes.” So Jon. 4:3. “Now, O Lord, take, | beseech
thee, my life from me; for it is better for me to die than [i.e., and пой to
live.”

So in the N.T., Heb. 11:25 : “Choosing rather to suffer affliction with
the People of God, than [i.e., and пой to enjoy the pleasures of sin for
8 season.”

So here the doctrine is that the Publican was justified and not the
Pharisee. Not that the Pharisee was justified a little, and the Publican
was justified a little more! The parable is wholly concerning
justification (verse 9), and not a parable about the nature of prayer.
The manner of the prayer is merely the vehicle for the illustration of
the truth.* [Note: Ignorance of the doctrine of justification, it may have
been, or oversight as to the point of the parable, that gave rise to the
difficulties presented by the Text, which was altered and glossed in
various ways in order to make sense. The Textus Receptus has
ἢ ἐκεῖνος, the mss. APQ, &c. have й 74? €?717??, with T.Tr. marg.
(i.e., “This man went down to his house justified ... or was it then the
other, &c.”). The mss. BLa have 22ῤ €?712??, with L.Tr.WH.AIf. (i.e.,
passing over the other).]

Luk. 19:44.-“And shall lay thee even with the ground.” ἐδαφίζειν
(edaphizein) signifies both {ο level to the ground, and to dash to the
ground. In this last sense it occurs in Psa. 137:9. Hos. 10:14; LXX.
[Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]

Luk. 20:9.-“A certain man planted a vineyard, and let it forth to
husbandmen, and went into a far country for a long time,” i.e., “he
went into a far country, [and remained there] a long time”; or, we may
supply, “and was absent for a long time.”

Luk. 21:38.-“And all the people came early in the morning to him in
the temple, for to hear him.”

But ὀρθρίζω (orthriz6) does not mean to come early, but {ο rise up
early, and the sense is:-“And all the people rising early in the morning,
[came] to him in the temple.”

Joh. 1:23.-“He said, | am the voice of one crying in the wilderness,”
etc.: i.e., “Il [am he of whom it is written] the voice of one crying in the
wilderness.”
Joh. 6:21.-“Then they willingly received him into the ship.” Here the
figure is hidden by a free translation. The Greek is:-“They were willing,
then, to receive him into the ship, [and they did receive him].”
Act. 7:9.-“And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into
Egypt,” i.e., “And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph [and
sent him away] into Egypt.

Ἀποδίδωμι (apodidémi) does not mean merely fo sell, but to put
away by giving over, whether for money or for any other return.
Act. 20:30.-“Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking
perverse things, to draw away disciples after them,” i.e., “speaking
perverse things [and seeking] to draw away.”
Act. 23:24.-“And provide them beasts, that they may set Paul on, and
bring him safe unto Felix the governor.” The Greek is, ΙΗ.,:- διασώζω
(dias6z6) to save through,” i.e., “and keep him in safety [and bring
him] unto Felix.”
Here, by the omission of the verb {ο bring, which is required by the
preposition, our attention is called to the fact which is of greater
importance, viz., the preservation of Paul from his enemies.

Gal. 5:4.-“Christ is become of no effect unto you, whosoever of you
are justified by the law; ye are fallen from grace.”

The Greek ἶς:-κατηργήθητε ἀπὸ τοῦ Χριστοῦ (kateergeetheete apo
tou Christou); and the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
translates it:-“Ye are severed from Christ,” and puts in the margin,
Greek “brought to nought.” But we may take the Greek literally, if we
put the margin in the Text and supply the Ellipsis correctly:-

“Ye are made void [and cut off] from Christ.”

Eph. 4:8.-“When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive
and, [receiving] gifts, gave them to men.” See Psa. 68:18 above.

2Ti. 1:10.-“And hath brought life and immortality to light through the
gospel.”

Here, following the order of the Greek, we may read:-“And brought
to light, [and procured for us] life and immortality through the gospel.”
By the Figure of Hendiadys (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), that which is
procured is immortal life, showing us that the emphasis is on the word
“immortal.”
2Ti. 2:26.-“And that they may recover themselves out of the snare of
the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will.”

Here both the figure and the sense are lost by defective
translation. The margin tells us that the words “recover themselves”
are used to render the Greek “awake,” i.e., “lest they may awake [and
be delivered] out of the snare of the devil.”

The structure of this Scripture makes the whole passage clear:-

Subversion.
Α 14. The aim of the enemy “Subversion” (καταστροφῇ).
В — 15. The workman (ἐργάτης).
©С 16. Exhortation. “Shun.”
D 17, 18-. Illustration. “Canker.”
Е  -18. Effect on others. “Overthrown.”
E 19. Effect on Foundation. “Standeth sure.”
D 20,21. Illustration. “Vessels.”
C 22, 23. Exhortation. “Flee ... Avoid.”
В 24, 25-. The Servant (δοῦλος).
А -25, 26. The aim of the enemy. “Opposition” (ἀντιδιατιθέμενοι).
Then by expanding this last member A, we see the meaning of
verses -25, 26:-
A. The aim of the enemy.
А а -25-. “Lest God should give them repentance”
b — -25. “Unto (εἰς) the knowledge of the truth,”
а — 26-. “And lest, being taken alive by him, [by God, as in “а”]
they may awake [and be delivered] from the devil's snare”
Ь -26. “Unto (εἰς) his [6οα”5] will (i.e., to do the will of
God).”
Here in “a” and “a” we have the action of God in delivering, while in
“b” and “b” we have the object for which the captive is delivered.
2Ti. 4:18.-“And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will
preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom:” i.e., “preserve me, [and
bring mej.” Thus fixing our thought rather on the wondrous
preservation than on the act of bringing.
Heb. 5:3.-“And by reason hereof he ought, as for the people, so also
for himself, to offer [sacrifices] for sins.”
Heb. 5:7.-“And was heard [and delivered] from his fear.” ἁπὸ τῆς
εὐλαβείας (apo tees eulabeias). (Only here and Heb. 12:28). See Psa.
22:21, above.
Heb. 9:16-17.-“For where a testament is, there must also of necessity
be the death of the testator. For a testament is of force after men are
dead: otherwise it is of no strength at all whilst the testator liveth.”

It is clear that it is a “covenant” to which these words refer, and not
a testamentary document. The reference to the “first” covenant at
Sinai mentioned in the verses which immediately follow, decides this
for us. See Exo. 24:5-8.
And the mention also of the sprinkling of the blood shows that
sacrifices are referred to.

The word translated “testator” is the participle:-dia8éyevoc
(diathemenos), and means appointed.* [Note: Participle of 2222322222
(diatitheemi), to appoint (566 Luk. 22:29). “And | appoint unto you a
kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me.” Act. 3:25 : “The
covenant which God made with our fathers.” Heb. 8:10 : “This is the
covenant which | will make with the house of Israel after those days,
saith the Lord.” So also Heb. 10:16. These are the only places where
the verb occurs, except this passage.] Its use shows that the sacrifice
by which the covenant was made is really contained in the word.

And the word διαθήκη (diatheekee) everywhere means covenant.

So that, in accordance with these Scriptures and facts, we may
translate verses 16-18, as follows:-

“For where a covenant is, there must also of necessity be the
death of him (or that) which makes [the sacrifice]. For a covenant is of
force over* [Note: ἐπί means over, as marking the ground or
foundation of the action. See Mat. 24:47. Luk. 12:44; Luk. 15:7 (7), 10;
19:41; 23:38. Act. 8:2. 1Th. 3:7. Rev. 11:10; Rev. 18:11. It is
translated, “upon” and “on,” etc., many times; but “after” only here and
Luk. 1:59.] dead [victims or sacrifices]; otherwise it is never held to be
of force while he who is the appointed [sacrifice] is alive. Where-upon
neither the first [covenant] was dedicated without blood,” etc.
Heb. 10:23.-“Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience,”
i.e., “Having our hearts sprinkled [and so being delivered] from an evil
conscience.”
1Pe. 3:20.-“Were saved by water,” i.e, “Were preserved [and
delivered] by water.”
Rev. 13:3.-“And all the world wondered after the beast.” ὁπίσω (opis6)
is an adverb of place or time, and means back, behind, after (see Rev.
1:10; Rev. 12:15). It cannot, therefore, be taken in connection simply
With wondered. But the following is the sense:-

“And all the world wondered [and followed] after the beast.”
Rev. 20:2.-“And bound him a thousand years,” i.e., “And bound him
[and kept him bound] a thousand years.”

C. The Ellipsis of Repetition:

Where the omitted word or words is, or are to be supplied out of the
preceding or following clause, in order to complete the sense.
This Ellipsis is either simple or complex.

Simple, when anything is to be repeated separately, either out of
what precedes or follows.

Complex, when two things are to be repeated; one out of a
preceding clause into the following clause; and at the same time
another out of the following into the preceding clause.

|. Simple
1. Where the Omission is to be supplied by REPEATING a word or
words out of the Preceding Clause

(a) Nouns and Pronouns
Exo. 12:4.-“Let him and his neighbour next unto his house take it,”
ie., the lamb from verse 3.
1Ki. 1:6.-“And [Haggith] bare him after Absalom.”
2Ki. 3:25.-“Only in Kir-haraseth left they the stones thereof.”

The Heb. reads (see margin):-“Until he left the stones thereof in
Kir-haraseth.”
The Ellipsis is to be supplied from verse 24. “Until in Kir-haraseth
[only] they left the stones thereof [fo the Moabites].”
Psa. 12:6, (7).-“The words of the Lord are pure words: as silver tried
in a furnace of earth, purified seven times.”
Here there is an important Ellipsis. № has been a great difficulty
with many to think that the Lord’s words should require purifying,
especially after the declaration in the first part of the verse, that they
are “pure.” What increases the difficulty is the fact that the word for
earth is ALUIX (eretz), the earth: i.e., the dry land or the world as
created, as in Gen. 1:1 : “In the beginning God created the heaven
and the earth” (ALLIX, επείζ). It is generally taken as though it were
used of a crucible made of earth or clay; but in this case it would be
аГОД (adamah), ground, soil, clay; and not eretz, the whole earth;
Moreover, the Lamed prefixed (М) means fo or pertaining to. It is the
sign of the dative case and not of the genitive. The Revisers note this
and render it:-“As silver tried in a furnace on the earth,” as though it
was important for us to note that it is not in or under the earth! But this
does not touch the real difficulty. This is removed only by correctly
supplying the Ellipsis, and repeating the noun “words” from the
beginning of the verse.

Then, all is clear, and we not only may, but must then take the rest
of the words in their literal sense. Thus:-“The words of the Lord are
pure words, as silver tried in a furnace; [words] of the earth: (or
pertaining to the earth), purified seven times.”
That is to say the words in which Jehovah has been pleased to
make His revelation, are not the words of angels (1Co. 13:1), nor the
“unspeakable words of Paradise” (2Co. 12:4), but they were words
pertaining to man in this world-human words-but refined and purified
as Silver. Hence, in taking human language, there are many words
which the Holy Spirit has not chosen, and which cannot be found in
the Scriptures:

Some are exalted to an altogether higher meaning as

ἀρετή (aretee), as man had used it, meant merrily excellence
of any kind, manhood, nobility, valour, prowess. But, in the
Scriptures, it is used in the higher sense of glory (Hab. 3:3),
praise (58. 42:8; Isa. 42:12; Isa. 43:21; Isa. 53:7). And 5ο
in the New Testament, Php. 4:8; 1Pe. 2:9; 2Pe. 1:3; 2Pe.
1:5.

ἦθος (eethos) was only the haunt of an animal, but it became
custom, morals, character.

Some are used in a totally different sense from that in which they
had ever been used before.

χορηγέω (спогеедс) was simply to furnish or lead a chorus,
hut
it was changed {ο furnish or supply. 1Pe. 4:11 : “My God

shall supply all your need.”
εὐαγγέλιον (euangelion) was merely the dispatch containing

the news, but it was used in the new sense of the gospel of

God.
ἐκκλησία (ekkleesia) was used by the Greeks of any assembly,

but especially of citizens, or as we should say of a

selection from them, “burgesses.” The word means an

assembly of those called out, an elect assembly.

Hence it is used in the Septuagint of Israel as called out
from and as being an election from the nations.

Then, it was used of the congregation worshipping at the
Tabernacle as distinguished from the rest of the people.

In this sense it is used in the Old Testament, the Gospels,
and partly in the Acts. But in the Pauline Epistles the Holy
Spirit uses the word and exalts it to a far higher meaning; viz.,
of the special election from both Jews and Gentiles, forming
them as members of Christ’s Mystical Body into a new ecclesia
or assembly. This is a sense in which it had never before been
used.* [Note: See The Mystery, by the same author and
publisher.]

σωτηρία (séteeria) was merely preservation or deliverance
from danger, but in the Scriptures it is “the salvation of
God.”
παράκλητος (paracleetos) was merely the legal assistant or
helper. In the New Testament there is one Paracleetos
within us that we may not Sin (Joh. 14:16; Joh. 14:26; Joh.
15:26; Joh. 16:7); and another Paracleetos with the Father
if we do sin (1Jn. 2:1).

σκάνδαλον (skandalon) was used only of the trigger of a trap
to catch animals; but in the New Testament it is used in a
new and moral sense, of that which causes any one to be
caught or made to trip.

Other words were coined by the Holy Spirit Himself, and cannot be
found in any human writings.

σκανδαλίζω (skandaliz6) is a new word altogether. It is never
used in Classical Greek, it means {ο cause to stumble or
fall, to give cause of offence.

ἐπιούσιος (epiousios) is a word used only by our Lord (Mat.
6:11 and Luk. 11:3) in the Lord’s Prayer, where it is
rendered “daily.”
Hence the difficulty in interpreting it, as there is no usage to

help us. It is a question, therefore, of etymology. It is the
preposition ἐπὶ (epi), upon, prefixed to the participle of a verb.
But what verb? It cannot be the participle of the verb εἰμί
(eimi), to be, for its participle is οὖσα (ousa), and the
combination of otica with ἐπ] would be ἐποῦσα. It must be εἶμι
(eimi), to go or come, for its participle is ἰοῦσα (iousa), and the
combination of ἰοῦσα with ἐτή will be ἐπιοῦσα, as used by our
Lord. The word means, therefore, coming upon or going upon,
and would refer either to bread for our going or journeying
upon, or to the bread coming or descending upon us from
heaven, as the manna descended and came down upon Israel
(Joh. 6:32-33).

Hence it combines the two ideas of heavenly and daily,
inasmuch as the manna not only came down from heaven, but
did so every day, and on the strength of this they journeyed. It
is a word therefore of great fulness of meaning.

That the Ellipsis exists in Psa. 12:6 (which verse we are
considering), and may be thus supplied, is shown further from the
structure of the Psalm:-

Α 1. Decrease of good.

В а _ 2.Man’s words (Falsehood).
Ь — 3, 4. Their end: “cut off.”
6 5-. Oppression.
р -5-. Sighing.
р -5-. | will arise (for sighing).
©С -5.1 will deliver (from oppression).
В а 6. Jehovah's words (Truth).
Ь — 7. Their end: (preserved).

Α 8. Increase of bad.

Here in B, Jehovah’s words are placed in contrast with man’s
words in B: in a and a, their character respectively: and in b and b
their end.

Finally, we may expand a (verse 6) as follows:-

a ο The words of Jehovah are pure words.

@ — As silver tried in a furnace:
с [Words] pertaining to the earth.
а Purified seven times.

Here in c and c we have “words,” and in d and d we have the
purifying of the silver.

Psa. 68:18.-“Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity
captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also,
that the Lord God might dwell among them,” i.e., among or with those
rebels who have been taken captives.

Ecc. 12:11.-‘The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails
fastened by the masters of assemblies, which are given from one
shepherd.”

Here, instead of repeating “the words” from the first clause, the
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] inserts the word “by,” thus producing incoherence in the
passage. The structure shows us at once how the Ellipsis should be
filled up.

а — The words of the wise

bare as goads,
bandas tent-pegs well fixed,

а are [the words] of the masters of the assemblies.

Here, in a and a, we have “words,” and in b and b, what they are
compared to.
In “a” we have the words of those which act like goads, inciting to
action, or probing the conscience; while in a we have the words of
those who are the leaders of assemblies, propounding firmly
established principles and settled teaching. “Both of these (not
“which”) are given by the same shepherd.”

That is, as a chief shepherd gives to one servant a goad for his
use, and to another a stake, or “tent-peg,” to fix firmly in the ground,
so the God of all wisdom, by the Chief Shepherd in glory, gives to His
servants “words,” different in their tendency and action, but conducing
to the same end, showing the one source from which the various gifts
are received. He gives to some of His under-shepherds “words” which
act as goads; while He gives to others “words” which “stablish,
strengthen and settle.”

Isa. 40:13.-“Who hath directed the Spirit of the Lord, or being his
counsellor hath taught him?”

Here the Ellipsis is arbitrarily supplied by the word “being,” which
necessitates a departure from the Heb., which is given in the margin,
“made him understand.”

The Ellipsis is correctly supplied thus:-“Who hath directed the
Spirit of the Lord; or [who] as His counsellor hath made him to
understand?”

Amo. 3:12.-“As the shepherd taketh out of the mouth of the lion two
legs, or a piece of an ear; so shall the children of Israel be taken out
that dwell in Samaria in the corner of a bed, and in Damascus in a
couch,” i.e., “and [in the corner ой a couch.”

Mal. 2:14.-“Yet ye say, Wherefore?” i.e., from verse 13, wherefore
[does He not regard our offering, etc.]?

Act. 7:15-16.-“So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he, and our
fathers, and were carried over into Sychem, and laid in the sepulchre
that Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Emmor the
father of Sychem.”

Here the article τοῦ (tou), of the, rendered “the father,” should be
év (en), in, according to Tischendorf, Tregelles, Westcott and Hort, and
the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

There must have been three purchases altogether, of which two
are recorded in Genesis, and one in Act. 7:1-60

(1) According to Act. 7:16, Abraham bought a sepulchre from the
sons of Hamor.

There is no record of this purchase in Genesis. But Stephen, “full
of the Holy Ghost,” supplies the information. It was purchased of
Hamor, the son of Shechem, for “a sum of money.” Shechem was the
place where God first appeared to Abraham in Canaan (Gen. 12:6),
and where he first built an altar (verse 7). Here it was that (according
to Act. 7:16) he bought “a sepulchre.”

The original Shechem must have been an important person to
have given his name to a place; and it was of his son that Abraham
bought it.

(2) According to Gen. 23:1-20, Abraham purchased a field with
trees in it and round it; and a cave called Machpelah at the end of it. It
was situated at Hebron (Mamre), and was purchased of Ephron the
Hittite, the son of Zohar, for 400 shekels of silver. Here Abraham
buried Sarah, and here he himself was buried. Here also were buried
Isaac, Rebekah and Jacob (Gen. 49:29-32; Gen. 50:13).

(3) Jacob’s purchase in Gen. 33:19, was years afterward, of
another Hamor, another descendant of the former Shechem. What
Jacob bought was “a parcel of a field,” of Hamor, a Hivite, perhaps the
very field which surrounded the “sepulchre” which Abraham had
before bought of an ancestor of this Hamor. Jacob gave 100 pieces of
money (or lambs, margin) for it. Here Joseph was buried (Jos. 24:32),
and here Jacob’s sons were “carried over,” or transferred, as Joseph
was.
Now Act. 7:15 speaks of two parties, as well as of three
purchases:-“he” ({6., Jacob), and “our fathers.” In verse 16 the verb is
plural and must necessarily refer not to “he” (Jacob), who was buried
in Machpelah, but to “our fathers.” They were carried over and laid in
the sepulchre that Abraham bought, not of “Ephron the Hittite” (Gen.
23:1-20), but of Hamor the Hivite.

In the abbreviated rehearsal of facts well known to all to whom
Stephen spoke, and who would gladly have caught at the least slip, if
he had made one, Stephen condensed the history, and presented it
elliptically thus:-

“So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he and our fathers, and
[our fathers] were carried over into Sychem, and laid in the sepulchre:-
[he, i.e., Jacob] in that which (ᾧ, Πο" [Note: Griesbach, Lachmann,
Tischendorf, Tregelles, Alford, Wordsworth, Westcott and Hort, read ᾧ
(6) in that which, instead of 6 (Πο) which.] ) Abraham bought for a
sum of money, [and they in that which was bought] from the sons of
Hamor in Sychem.”

It is probable that the rest of the “fathers” who died in Egypt were
gathered to both of these burial places, for Josephus says (Ant. lib.
2.4) that they were buried at Hebron; while Jerome (Ep. ad
Pammach.) declares that in his day their sepulchres were at
Shechem, and were visited by strangers.

Rom. 6:5.-“For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his
death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection.” Here it is,
“We shall be raised [in the likeness] of his resurrection also.” (See
above, pages 18, 19).

Rom. 12:11.-“Not slothful in business.” Lit., “not slothful in earnest
care [i.e., earnest care for others (from verse 10).”

1Со. 2:11.-“For what man knoweth the things of a man?” /е., the
[deep] things (or depths), from verse 10-the secret thoughts and
purposes of the spirit of man. “So the [deep] things (or depths) of God,
knoweth no man but the Spirit of God.”

1Со. 2:13.-“Which things also we speak, not in the words which man’s
wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing
spiritual things with spiritual:”
Here we have, first, to repeat in the second clause the expression
“in the words” from the first clause:-“Not in the words which man’s
wisdom teacheth, but [in the words] which the Holy Ghost teacheth.”
This prepares the way for the supply of the important Ellipses of the
last sentence. The two adjectives “spiritual” (one neuter accusative
plural and the other masculine dative plural) must have nouns which
they respectively qualify, and the question is, What are these nouns to
be? The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] suggests “things” (which ought to have been in
italics). The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] suggests, in the
margin, two different nouns:-‘interpreting spiritual things to spiritual
men.” Much depends on the meaning of the verb συγκρίνω (sunkrind)
which occurs only here, and in 2Co. 10:12, in the New Testament. Its
etymological meaning is clear, being a compound of κρίνω (krind), to
separate or sift (hence, to judge) and σύν (sun), together with, so that
it means literally to separate or take to pieces and then to put
together. When we do this with things, we compare them by judging
them, or we judge them by comparing them; hence, συγκρίνω
(sunkrino), is translated “compare” in 2Co. 10:12, and is used of the
foolishness of those who “measuring themselves by themselves, and
comparing themselves among themselves, are not wise” (margin,
“understand # not”). Here the force of the idea of judging is clearly
seen. So also the verb is used in Wis. 7:29, where wisdom “being
compared with the light is found before it.” In Wis. 15:18 :-“They
worshipped those beasts also that are most hateful: for being
compared together, some are worse than others.”

In 1Ma. 10:71, the idea of judging is very clear, being translated
“try.” Apollonius says to Jonathan, “Now therefore, if thou trustest in
thine own strength, come down to us into the plain field, and there let
us try the matter together;” i.e., let us judge or determine the matter
together.

In Gen. 40:8; Gen. 40:16; Gen. 40:22; Gen. 41:12; Gen. 41:15, itis
used for Cpbu (pahthar), to open, hence, to interpret; and in Dan.
5:13; Dan. 5:17 for the Chald. Φμμίι (p’shar), to explain, interpret;
also in Num. 15:34 for Φμιῃῃ (pahrash), to separate or divide, hence
(in Pual), to declare distinctly.* [Note: See also Neh. 8:8, “distinctly,”
and Ezr. 4:18, “plainly.”]

“And they put him in ward, because it was not declared what
should be done to him” (i.e., to the man who had gathered
sticks on the Sabbath).

Hence, for these are all the occurrences of the verb συγκρίνω
(sunkrin6é), the general meaning of the verb is to communicate
distinctly so as to expound or interpret or make anything clear and
plain: i.e., to separate or take anything to pieces and put it together
again so as to make its nature or construction known. This meaning-to
make known or declare-thus seems to combine all the various ideas
included in the verb. For we cannot become known to ourselves by
measuring ourselves with others (2Co. 10:12). Hence the dreams
were interpreted or made known (Gen. 40:8, etc.), and it was not
made known what was to be done to the Sabbath-breaker (Num.
15:34). This meaning, too, agrees with 1Co. 2:13, where it is used in
connection with persons.

Some propose to supply the Ellipsis with the word “words” from the
former part of the verse. But though it is true, in fact, that the apostle
declared spiritual things with spiritual words, it is not in harmony with
what is said in the larger context here.
In verse 1 he explains that when he came to them he could not
declare unto them “the mystery of God.” For so the words must be
read, as in the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , and all the
critical Greek Texts.* [Note: 2222232223 (musteerion), mystery, and not
3:68: (marturion), testimony.]

He was obliged to confine his teaching to truths connected with
“Christ crucified,” and could not go on to those glorious truths
connected with Christ risen (as in Eph. and Col.) Howbeit (he adds)
we do “teach wisdom among them that are initiated” (verse 5), even
the mystery (verse 6) which had been hidden, but which God had now
revealed (verse 10) to him and to the Church through him: viz., the
hitherto profound and absolute secret of the Body of Christ, consisting
of Christ the glorious Head in heaven, and His people the members of
that body here upon earth; Jews and Gentiles forming “one new man”
in Christ.

But these Corinthians (when he went to them) were all taken up
with their own “Bodies.” One said, “I am of Paul”; and another, “I am of
Apollos.” How, then, could they be prepared to hear, and be initiated
into, the wondrous secret concerning the One Body?

No! These “spiritual things” could be declared and made known
only (verse 13) to “spiritual persons,” and the apostle says (3:1-6): “I
could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal.”

This, then, is evidently the scope of the whole context, and it
shows us that to receive these “spiritual things” we must be “spiritual
persons”: members of the One Body of Christ, rather than of one of
the many “bodies” of men. Then we shall be prepared to learn the
“deep things of God,” which Were afterwards taught to these
Corinthian saints by epistle in 1Co. 12:1-31+ [Note: See further on this
subject in a pamphlet on The Mystery, by the same author and
publisher.]
1Co. 4:4.-“For | know nothing by myself, yet am | not hereby justified.”

Le., “For | am not conscious to myself of any [unfaithful, from verse
2] thing, yet | am not justified by this; but he that judgeth me is the
Lord,” and He is able to bring all such hidden and secret things to
light. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] has “against
myself.”
2Co. 3:16.-“Nevertheless when [their heart, from verse 15] shall turn
to the Lord, the veil shall be taken away [from : i.e., “is taken away”
(R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ), for it is the present tense,
and is very emphatic because it explains why their heart shall turn to
the Lord! We might almost read it “When the veil is taken away from
[their heart], it shall turn to the Lord.” See Mal. 4:6.
2Co. 6:16.-“And what agreement hath the temple of God with [the
temple of] idols?”

2Co. 11:14-15.-“And no marvel; for Satan himself transformeth himself
into an angel of light. Therefore it is no great [marvel] if his ministers
also transform themselves as ministers of righteousness; whose end
shall be according to their works:” whatever may be their present
appearance or “reward.”

This is the most dangerous of all Satan’s “devices.” (1) He goes
about as “a roaring lion” (1Pe. 5:8), and we know that we must flee
from him. (2) He beguiles through his subtilty, as “the old serpent”
(2Co. 11:3), and there is great fear, lest we be “corrupted.” But (3),
most dangerous of all, he transforms himself into “an angel of light.”
Here it is that God’s servants are deceived and “join affinity” with
Ahabs and Jezebels to “do (so-called) good”!
Eph. 3:17-19.-“That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith; that ye
being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with
all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height; and to
know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be
filled with all the fulness of God.”

We following the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
rendering and supplying the Ellipsis from the preceding clause:-

“That Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith; to the end that
(iva) ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may be strong to
apprehend with all the saints what the breadth and length and height
and depth [of love is] even (τε) to know the love of Christ which
passeth knowledge,” etc.

We are to be rooted as a tree, in love; we are to be founded as a
building in love; but we can never know what it is in all its length and
breadth and height and depth until we know Christ's love for us, for
that surpasses all knowledge.

Bengel beautifully explains the four terms: the “length” extending
through all ages from everlasting to everlasting; the “breadth”
extending to people from all nations; the “height” to which no man can
reach or attain, and from which no creature can pluck us; its “depth,”
so deep that it cannot be fathomed or exhausted. (see on this verse
above, page 18.)
1Ti. 1:16.-“Howbeit, for this cause | obtained mercy that in me first
Jesus Christ might show forth all long suffering, for a pattern to them
which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting.”
Here πρῶτος (prétos), translated “first,” is the same word which is
translated “chief in the preceding verse. If We retain this rendering,
we may also supply the Ellipsis from the same context, thus:-“That in
me the chief [of sinners], Jesus Christ might show forth all long
suffering.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] renders “that in me
as chief,” etc.
Heb. 2:11.-“For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified
are all [sons] of one [father]: for which cause he is not ashamed to call
them brethren.”
Heb. 7:4.-“Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even
the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils.”

There is here no word for “man” in the Greek, and we may better
supply the word “priest” from verse 3. “Now consider how great this
[priest] was.”
Tit. 3:8.-“This is a faithful saying, and these things | will that thou
affirm constantly.” The Greek reads, as in the R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] , “concerning these.” The A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] supply “things.” But we may repeat the
word “heirs” from the preceding verse:-“That being justified by his
grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
This is a faithful saying, and concerning these [heirs] | will that thou
affirm constantly (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ,
confidently), that they which have believed in God might be careful to
maintain good works.”

1Jn. 2:2.-“He is the propitiation for our sins: and not for ours only, but
also for the sins of the whole world.”

The words here are correctly repeated from the preceding clause.
The contrast is between “ours” and “the world.” A very emphatic word
is here used for “ours,” not the genitive case of the ordinary pronoun
ἡμῶν (heemén) “our,” which is used in the first clause, but a special
possessive pronoun, which is very emphatic, ἡμετέρος (heemeteros),
our own. It is used of that which is peculiarly ours as distinct from that
which belongs to others, e.g.:-
Act. 2:11. We do hear them speak in our tongues.

Act. 24:6. According to our law.

Act. 26:5. Sect of our religion.

Rom. 15:4. Were written for our learning.

2Ti. 4:15. He hath greatly withstood our words.

Tit. 3:14. And let ours also learn.

4Jn. 1:3. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and his
Son, Jesus Christ.

So that “our sins” refers to the writer and his People, as Jews, as
distinct from the rest of the world. Before this, propitiation was only for
the sins of Israel; but now, and henceforth, Christ's propitiation was for
all without distinction, “out of every kindred, and tongue, and people,
and nation”: not for all without exception, for then all must be saved,
which is not the case.

See further on this verse under Synecdoche.

(b) Where the omitted Verb is to be repeated from a preceding
clause
Gen. 1:30.-The verb “/ have given” is correctly repeated in the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] from verse 29.
Gen. 4:24.-“If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy
and sevenfold,” i.e., “Lamech [shall be avenged] seventy and
sevenfold.”

This is spoken with reference to what is stated in the preceding
verse, which is very obscure both in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] renders it “I have slain,”
and margin “/ would slay,” while the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] renders it “I have slain a man for wounding me,” etc., and
margin “/ will slay.” But we must note that these words of Lamech
were called forth by the fact that through his son, who was “an
instructor of every artificer in brass and iron,” Lamech was in
possession of superior weapons.

This is the earliest form of poetry in the Bible. It is significant that it
should be in praise of that violence which was soon to overspread the
earth. It is in praise of the new weapons of war which Lamech had
now obtained; and so proud is he of his newly-acquired power, that if
anyone injured him he declares that he would be so avenged that he
would outdo Jehovah in His punishment of Cain. See further for the
poetical form, under Parallelism.

Deu. 1:4.-“And Og, the king of Bashan, which dwelt at Astaroth [he
(i.e., Moses) slew] in Edrei.” See Num. 21:33. Deu. 3:1.

1К!. 20:34.-“Then said Ahab.” The verb must be repeated from the
preceding clause.

Psa. 1:5.-“Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, and
sinners [shall not stand] in the congregation of the righteous.”

Thus, the blessing of the righteous is, that they do not stand
among “sinners” (verse 1) now; and the punishment of the ungodly will
be that they shall not stand among the righteous in the judgment
(verse 5).

Psa. 45:3.-“Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, О most mighty: [gird
thyself] with thy glory and thy majesty.”

Psa. 126:4.-“Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the
south.”

There must be a figure employed here, as the grammatical
construction is not complete. There is neither subject nor verb in the
second clause, as will be apparent if we set them forth, thus:-
Subject.
Verb.
Object.
О Lord as...
turn again ...
our captivity, the streams of the south.

Consequently, it is clear that a figure is employed, and that this
figure is Ellipsis.

The correct supply of the Ellipsis will enable us to give a literal
translation of the other words. The comparison employed shows us
that the verb required in the second sentence must be repeated from
the first.
“Turn again our captivity, О Lord, as [thou turnest] the streams in
the south.” But this does not yield the whole sense, unless we see the
correct and literal meaning of the words.

The word “streams” is aqbunH (apheekeem). It is from the root
αφή (aphak) to put a force, constraint or restraint upon (Gen. 43:30;
Gen. 45:1. Est. 5:19).

It is the proper name for a narrow and practically inaccessible
water-course, either natural (in a gorge, or underground); or artificial
(in an aqueduct), in which the water is forced, restrained, and turned
about by its strong barriers in various directions. It occurs eighteen
times.* [Note:

2Sa. 22:16. “The channels of the sea appeared.”

Job. 6:15. “As the stream of brooks they pass away.”

Job. 12:21. “He weakeneth the strength of the mighty” (i.e., the
apheekeem).

Job. 40:18. “His [Behemoth’s] bones are as strong pieces of brass”
(i.e., like apheekeem or aqueducts of brass).
Job. 41:15. “His [Leviathan’s] scales are his pride” (marg., strong
pieces of shields).

Psa. 18:15. “Then the channels of waters were seen.”

Psa. 42:1. “As the hart panteth (marg., brayeth) after the water-
brooks:” i.e., the apheekeem. So also Joe. 1:20.

Psa. 126:4. “Turn our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the
south.”

Song Son. 5:12. “His eyes are as the eyes of doves by the rivers
of waters” (1.6., inhabiting the rocky cliffs of the apheekeem).

Isa. 8:7. “He [the king of Assyria] shall come up over all his
channels’ (i.e., over the rocky barriers of the apheekeem).

Eze. 6:3. “Thus saith the Lord God to the mountains, and to the
hills, to the rivers, and to the valleys” (1.6., to the gorges and the
valleys, answering to the mountains and hills of the first line). So also
36:4, 6.

Eze. 31:12. “His boughs are broken by all the rivers of the land.”

Eze. 32:6. “The rivers shall be full of thee.”
Eze. 34:13. “And feed them upon the mountains of Israel by the
rivers.”

Eze. 35:8. “And in all thy rivers, shall they fall that are slain with
the [sword.”

Joe. 3:18. “All the rivers of Judah shall flow with waters.”] Six
times with the word “sea” or “waters.” Thus in Psa. 42:1 and Joe. 1:20,
the hart is pictured TMOacbnynOonH (al apheekai mayim),
over (not “for,” see Gen. 1:2, “darkness was upon the face of the
deep”; 1:20, “fowl that may fly above the earth,” etc.), above the
apheekai mayim. The hart hears the rushing of the waters far below in
their rocky bed, and she “crieth out” (ТШВ (arag) to cry, to long for,
only here and Joe. 1:20) for the waters she cannot reach.

Then as to the word rendered “south” ΦΡ6, Negeb). This is the
proper name of a certain district in Canaan. It was “south” relatively to
Canaan, but not absolutely. This is clear from Gen. 12:9, where we
read, “Abram journeyed [from Bethel] going on still toward the south”
(ΠΡΒΘΠ, the Negeb). Afterwards we read (13:1): “And Abram went
up (north) out of Egypt ... into the south” (ΠΡΒΘΠ, the Negeb).t
[Note: It is still more clear from Deu. 1:7, where we have four distinct
topographical names:-‘in the plain (ie., in ARABAH, the Jordan
Valley), in the hills (1.6., the HILL COUNTRY of Judah), and in the vale
(i.e., in SHEPHELAH, the plain of Philistia), in the south” (i.e., in the
NEGEB, the region south of the hill country of Judah).

For other passages, see Num. 13:17; Num. 13:29; Num. 21:1.
Deu. 34:3. Jos. 10:40 : Jos. 12:8; Jos. 15:21. Jdg. 1:1-36 : 1Sa. 30:1.
Jer. 17:6.

Noting these words, several passages are greatly elucidated, such
as Jer. 32:44; Jer. 33:13. Zec. 7:7. Gen. 13:1, etc.]
The Negeb is intersected by deep and rocky gorges, or wadis,
called “apheekeem.” Springs and wells are almost unknown in that
region.

We Can now take the literal signification of these words, and
supply the Ellipsis by repeating the verb of the first clause, in the
second, and thus learn the meaning of the passage:-“Turn again our
captivity, О Lord, as [thou turnest] the apheekeem in the Negeb,” i.e.,
as those rushing waters are turned hither and thither by their mighty,
rocky barriers, so Thou canst put forth Thy might, and restrain the
violence of our enemies, and turn us again (as the rocky cliffs and
walls turn about the apheekeem) into our own land.

Pro. 10:23.-“It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of
understanding, hath wisdom,” i.e., “It is as sport to a fool to do
mischief, but [fo exercise] wisdom [is as sport] to a man of
understanding.”

Pro. 17:21.-“He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow,” i.e.,
begetteth him to his sorrow.

1К!. 14:14.-“The Lord shall raise him up a king over Israel who shall
cut off the house of Jeroboam that day: but what? even now,” i.e., “but
what [do | say]? even now [has he raised him up]:” for Baasha, who
was to cut off the house of Jeroboam, had even then been born.
Chap. 15:27, etc. See under Aposiopesis.

2Ki. 9:27.-“And Jehu ... said, Smite him also in the chariot, and they
did so,” i.e., “And [they smote him] at the going up to Gur.”

1Ch. 2:23.-“All these belonged to the sons of Machir, the father of
Gilead.”

Here the Ellipsis is arbitrarily supplied in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] by
introducing a new word into the text. The verb “took” must be repeated
from the preceding clause, and not the verb “belonged” brought in
from nowhere:-“And he took Geshur, and Aram, with the towns of Jair,
from them, with Kenath, and the towns thereof, even threescore cities.
All these [fook] the sons of Machir the father of Gilead.”

Neh. 5:4.-“There were also that said, We have borrowed money for
the king’s tribute, and that upon our lands and vineyards.”

Here the words “we have mortgaged’ must be repeated from verse
3. Thus:-“There were also some that said, We have borrowed money
for the king’s tribute, [we have mortgaged] our lands and vineyards.”
Ecc. 10:1.-Here the Ellipsis is supplied by the words “so doth.” But it is
better to repeat the verb, thus:-“As dead flies cause the ointment of
the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour: so a little folly [causeth]
him that is in reputation for wisdom and honour [fo send forth an
offensive odour).”

Isa. 8:19-20.-“And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that
have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter:
should not a people seek unto their God? for [should] the living [seek
unto] to the dead? To the Law and to the Testimony: if they speak not
according to this word, it is because there is no light in them.”

Amo. 6:12.-“Shall horses run upon a rock? will one plow there with
oxen?” i.e., “Shall horses run upon a rock? will a husbandman plow [a
rock] with oxen?”

Mar. 12:5.-“And again he sent another; and him they killed, and many
others [whom he sent, and they used them shametully, from verse 4],
beating some, and killing some.”

Mar. 14:29.-“Although all shall be offended, yet will not | [be
offended].”

Luk. 22:37.-“For | say unto you, that this that is written must yet be
accomplished in me, And he was reckoned amongst the
transgressors: for the things [written] concerning me have an end.”
This was the last prophecy written of Him which was to be fulfilled
before His betrayal, so He now abrogated a precept, necessary at the
presentation of Himself, but no longer necessary now that He had
been rejected, and was about to die. Now, therefore, they might not
only carry a sword, but buy one. So that He was only “reckoned” by
man among the transgressors.

Joh. 15:4.-“No more can ye, except ye abide in me,” {6., “No more
can ye [bear fruit] except ye abide in me” (see above, pages 12, 13).
Rom. 1:12.-‘That is, that | may be comforted together with you.” The
verse begins in the Greek, τοῦτο δέ ἐστι (touto de esti), but this is. The
verse reads, “But this [imparting to you some spiritual giff] is (or
means) our being jointly comforted by our mutual faith.” He refers to
his desire to see these saints in Rome, and the verb is repeated from
verse 11, “For | long to see you.”

Rom. 7:24-25.-“O wretched man that | am! who shall deliver me from
the body of this death? | thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord.”

The sense in this last clause is manifestly incomplete as an
answer to the previous question. Following the most approved
reading, instead of “I thank God,” we take the more ancient words,
“Thanks be to God,” [Note: Through not noticing the Ellipsis, attempts
have been made from the earliest times to get sense by altering the
text. The T.R. has 2ὐ222222ῶ 2ῷ 22ῷ, with Griesbach, Scholz, and A
К L P a. But 222322 ?@ 22ῷ Griesbach, Lachmann, Tischendorf,
Tregelles, Alford, Westcott and Hort, and R.V. Also the Vatican ms.
Others read, “But thanks be to God,” and others, “It is the grace of
God” (DE), and others, “It is the grace of the Lord” (FG).] and repeat
the words from verse 24, thus:-“Who shall deliver me from the body of
this death? Thanks be to God, [He will deliver me] through Jesus
Christ our Lord.”

The deliverance here desired is from the conflict between the old
nature and the new, the flesh and the spirit.t [Note: It is to be noted
that “spirit” with a small “s” is one of the names given to the new
nature which is implanted in every believer who is born again of the
Holy Spirit; and this term “spirit” is to be distinguished from the Person
of the Holy Spirit, from the context as well as from the absence of the
article. Even in Rom. 8:1-15, the Person of the Holy Spirit is not
mentioned. Not until verse 16, “spirit of God” in 8:9 and 14 is divine
spirit, 1.е., “divine nature” (2Pe. 1:4), “spirit of Christ” (8:9) is Pueuma-
Christou, Christ-Spirit, another term for the new nature. So, “spirit of
adoption” (verse 15) is “sonship-spirit,” and “the spirit of Him” (verse
11) is “the new nature [given by] Him who raised up,” &c.]

But as the flesh is bound up with this “body of death,” i.e., this
dying body, this mortal body, there is no deliverance except either
through death and resurrection, or through that “change” which shall
take place at the coming of Christ.

The old heart is not changed or taken away, but a new heart is
given, and these two are contrary the one to the other. They remain
together, and must remain until God shall “deliver” us from the burden
of this sinful flesh-this mortal body-by a glorious resurrection like unto
Christ's. This deliverance is further described in 8:11 and 23; and it is
“through Jesus” that our mortal bodies shall be raised again. See 1Th.
4:14, διὰ Ἰησοῦ (dia leesou), “by means of Jesus,” and 1Th. 5:9 : “God
hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation ({6., full
deliverance from this body of sin and death) by (i.e., by means of, or
through) our Lord Jesus Christ.”
See this passage under the Figures of Metonymy, Hypallage,
Ecphonesis, and Erotesis.
Rom. 8:19-21 may be explained thus:-
Expectation.
Α 19. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the
manifestation of the sons of God.

The Reason.

В 20-. For the creature was made subject to vanity, not
willingly, but by reason of him who hath subjected the
same:

Expectation.
А -20. [Waiteth, | say (from verse 19)] in hope,

The Reason.

Β 21. Because the creature itself shall be delivered from the
bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the
children of God.

Here, A, corresponding with A, shows us that we are to repeat in
the latter member, A, the verb used in the former, A; the subject of
each member being the same.
Rom. 8:33.-“Who shall lay anything to the charge of God’s elect? /t is
God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? /t is Christ that died.”

We have to remember that, while only the greater pauses are
indicated in the ancient manuscripts, there is no authority for the minor
interpunctuation. This can generally be accurately gathered by the
devout student of the context. Here it is probable that the questions
ought to be repeated:-“Who shall lay anything to the charge of God’s
elect? [Shall] God who justifieth [them]? Who is he that condemneth
[them]? [/s if] Christ who died [for them]? Yea, rather; that is risen
again, etc.”
1Co. 4:15.-“For though ye have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet
have ye not many fathers.”

Here the verb “ye have’ is correctly repeated in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
1Co. 15:23.-“But every man [shall be made alive (from verse 22)] in
his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward they that are Christ’s at
his coming. Then the end,” i.e., not “then cometh the end,” for τὸ τέλος
(to telos) is used of the last company of a body of soldiers.* [Note:
Hom. ΙΙ. 7, 380; 10, 470, etc.] τὸ τέλος (to telos) is the end: but of
what, or what end, can be determined only by the context. Here the
subject is the various bodies τάγματα (tagmata) ranks, i.e., every man
in his own proper band. Of these bands or ranks Christ is first; then
they that are Christ’s at His coming; then the last of these bands at the
end of the thousand years (Rev. 20:5), when Christ shall deliver up the
kingdom.

The second of these is not the resurrection foretold in 1Th. 4:16,
as the privilege of those who are “in Christ,” but the “first” of the two
resurrections referred to in the Old Testament, the Gospels, and the
Apocalypse.
2Co. 1:6.-“And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation.”

Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] supplies the verb substantive. It is better to
repeat the verb “[we are afflicted] for your consolation.”
2Co. 3:11.-“For if that which is done away was glorious, much more
that which remaineth is glorious.”

Here the two words διὰ δόξης (dia doxees), by means of glory, and
ἐν ббёл (en doxee), in glory, are both translated by the same word,
“glorious,” while the verb substantive (“was” and “is”) is thus
necessarily, though incorrectly, supplied. The R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] renders the verse, “For if that which passeth away
(margin, is being done away) was with glory, much more that which
remaineth is in glory.”

But, if we repeat the verbs already used by the Holy Spirit, we can
take the Greek literally:-“For if that which is done away [is done away]
by glory (see verse 10), much more that which remaineth, [remaineth]
in glory.”
2Co. 12:2.-“Such an one [/ knew] caught up, etc.”

The verb ἁρπάζω (harpaz6) does not necessarily mean that the
catching is “up,” but rather “away.” In Mat. 11:12. Joh. 6:15. Act. 23:10
it is rendered take by force. In Mat. 13:19. Act. 8:39 it is catch away. In
Joh. 10:12 it is rendered “catch”; in Joh. 10:28-29, it is “pluck”; while in
Jud. 1:23 it is pull.

See also Eze. 8:3. Rev. 1:10. “Such an one [/ knew] caught away:”
and this either with reference to place or time, i.e., caught away to
some present place (Act. 8:39-40), or to a vision of some future time
(as in Eze. 8:3. Rev. 1:10; Rev. 4:2, etc.).

Gal. 2:7.-“The gospel of the uncircumcision was committed unto me,
as the gospel of the circumcision was [committed] unto Peter.”

Gal. 5:17.-“For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit
against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other, so that
ye cannot do the things that ye would.”

Here the word ἐπιθυμέω (epithumed) is connected with κατά
(kata), against, i.e., to desire that which is against, or contrary to. The
same verb is used both of the flesh and of the spirit ({6., the new
nature), and the Ellipsis of the verb with reference to the latter enables
it to be used in its bad sense with regard to the flesh and in a good
sense with regard to the spirit:-“For the flesh desires that which is
against the spirit, and the spirit desires that which is against the flesh;
and these desires are contrary to one another, so that ye cannot do
the things that ye would,” {Θ., so that your new nature is hindered
ofttimes in doing those good things that ye would, and, thank God,
your old nature is also hindered from doing the things which it lusts
after.

Eph. 1:13.-“In whom ye also trusted.” Here the verb is repeated from
verse 12: but it seems rather that another verb should be repeated,
from verse 11: “In whom ye also were allotted as God’s own
inheritance,” for it is the inheritance which is the subject of the context
and not the matter of trusting.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] neither sees, nor
supplies the Ellipsis, treating it as an Anacoluthon (q.v. [Note: Which
see] ).

Eph. 4:22.-We must repeat from verse 17, “[/ say also] that ye put off
concerning the former conversation the old man, which is corrupt
according to the deceitful lusts.”

1Th. 2:11.-“Ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged
every one of you, as a father doth his children.”

Here all three verbs are to be understood, /е., “as a father
[exhorteth, and comforteth, and chargeth] his children.” (See under
Polysyndeton).

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] better preserves the
order of the Greek, supplying and treating the Ellipsis as absolute. “As
ye know how we dealt with each one of you, as a father with his own
children, exhorting you, and encouraging you, and testifying, etc.”
1Th. 4:14.-“For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so
them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.”

Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] :-“Even so them also that
are fallen asleep in Jesus will God bring with him.”

The two clauses of this verse, as they are thus translated, are so
inconsequent that the passage has been a source of difficulty to many,
and is practically unintelligible. When this is the case we must ask
whether there is a figure employed, and, if so, what it is. Here it can be
only the figure Ellipsis. But what are the omitted words, which if
supplied will cause the passage to yield sense as to teaching, and
completeness as to structure?
Before we can answer this question we must institute an enquiry
into the usage of the word translated “even:” as this is the key that will
open this lock, besides explaining and throwing light on many other
passages. The word “even” here is καί (kai), and καί (ka/) is the
ordinary conjunction, and, which has two distinct senses, (1) and, (2)
also or even. It is the latter of these with which we are now concerned.
It is a matter of great importance that we should always know what is
the word which it emphasizes. In the Greek, this is never in doubt.*
[Note: Nor is it in the Hebrew, as the @ is always joined to and forms
part of the word with which it is connected.] But in English literature,
including both the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] and the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] ‚ its usage is very inconsistent and defective. In the Greek, kai,
when it means also, is always placed immediately before the word
which it emphasizes; while in English usage it may be placed either
before or after the word. When we add to this that both in the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] it is often
dissociated altogether from this word, the confusion and ambiguity can
be imagined.

The word kai is used in the sense of also some 636 times in the
New Testament.t [Note: See a pamphlet on the usage of the word
“Also” in the New Testament, by the same author and publisher.]

In 258 of these it is placed (in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) after the word.

In 275 it is placed before the word, or in connection with another
word to which it does not belong.

In 60 places it is not translated at all.

In 43 places it is rendered even, and placed before the word.

Sometimes the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] agree in this, and sometimes they differ.

Now, remembering that the English word “also” must immediately
follow the word which it emphasizes, we ask what is that word here
(1Th. 4:14)? As the Greek stands, it reads, “If we believe that Jesus
died and rose again, even so them which sleep in Jesus, GOD also
will bring with him.” But this yields no intelligible meaning. The hope
that is mentioned in the second clause cannot be conditioned on our
belief of the fact stated in the former clause.

But notice, before we proceed, that the preposition διά (dia), when
it governs the genitive case, as it does here, denotes agency, and is
rendered “by” 235 times, “through” 87 times, etc.; but “in” only 8 times.
See its use in the very next chapter (1Th. 5:9), “We are appointed to
obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ” (διὰ τοῦ κυρίου ἡμῶν Ἰησοῦ
Χριστοῦ); Rom. 7:25, “1 thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord” (διὰ
Ἰησοῦ Χριστοῦ); Rom. 5:9, “We shall be saved from wrath through
him” (δι ’ αὐτοῦ). No wonder therefore that the Π.Ν. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] , while translating it here “in Jesus,” says in
the margin, “Greek, through,” and adds the alternative rendering, “Will
God through Jesus bring.”

The one thought and subject is Resurrection, as the great and
blessed hope of the Lord’s people. The three clauses are perfectly
balanced, as will be seen in the following structure of verse 14:-

а If we believe (Belief)

b that Jesus died (Death)
с and rose again, (Resurrection)

а — п №е manner [we believe] also (Belief)

Ь — That them which are asleep (Death)
ο will God (by Jesus) bring with Him [from the dead].
(Resurrection).

Here in a and a we have the statement of our belief, in b and b we
have death (in b the death of Jesus, and in b the death of His saints),
while in c and c we have resurrection (in c the resurrection of Jesus by
God, and in c the resurrection of His people by God), but in an
explanatory parenthesis it is explained that the Lord Jesus will be the
agent, as the context goes on to show (see Joh. 5:21; Joh. 11:25;
Joh. 11:43). It was God who brought Jesus from the dead (Heb.
13:20). In like manner will He-by Jesus-bring His people from the
dead.

Hence, we must repeat the verb “we believe” from the first clause:
“If we believe that Jesus died and rose again, in like manner [we
believe] also that God will, through Jesus, bring, with Him, them that
are fallen asleep.”

This is the scope of the passage, which immediately goes on to
explain how this will be accomplished. We have the same hope
presented in the same manner in Rom. 6:5; Rom. 8:11. 2Co. 4:14,
viz., that Resurrection and Advent are the only hope of mourning
saints.

Heb. 3:15.-“While it is said, To-day, etc.” (So R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] ). The Greek is “ἐν τῷ λέγεσθαι, Σήµερον,” “in (or by)
its being said, To-day.”

The simplest solution of this confessedly difficult passage is to
repeat the exhortation from verse 13: “[As ye are exhorted] by the
saying, To-day, etc.”

Heb. 4:7.-“Again [seeing] he limiteth,” from verse 6.

Heb. 4:10.-“For he that hath entered into his rest, he himself also hath
rested from his works, as God [rested] from his.”

Heb. 7:8.-“And here men that die receive tithes; but there he receiveth
them, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.”

The reference is clearly to Melchisedec, and it is not testified of
him that he now liveth. In Psa. 110:4 it is testified of Christ, “Thou art a
priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.” That which marked “the
order of Melchisedec” as being different from “the order of Aaron” was
the fact that the days of Aaron’s order of priesthood began at 30 years
of age, and ended at the age of 50 years, whereas the days of
Melchisedec’s had neither such a beginning nor such a limitation: his
priesthood had “neither beginning of days nor end of life,” but he
remained a priest continually, ie., all his life (7:3). εἰς τὸ διηνεκές (eis
to dieenekes) means for a continuance, the duration being determined
by the nature of the context.
In chap. 7:1 it must mean that Melchisedec remained a priest all
his life; in chap. 10:1 it must mean that the sacrifices were continually
offered until the end of the Mosaic dispensation; in 10:12 it means that
the one sacrifice of Christ is efficacious in perpetuity (or, with
Macknight, that Christ offered only one sacrifice during His whole life);
while in chap. 10:14 it means that the perfection arising from this
sacrifice is limited only by the life of those who are sanctified.
Hence, here in 7:8 the Ellipsis may be thus supplied:-“And here
men that die receive tithes; but there [a man received them] of whom it
is testified that he lived [a priest all his life.]’* [Note: The present tense
is here (as is often the case) put (by the figure of Enallage (q.v.), or
“Exchange’) for the preterite as in Act. 9:26), not believing that he is a
disciple (1.6., was); Heb. 7:3, he remaineth (i.e., remained); Mar. 5:15,
they come and see (1.6., came and saw); Joh. 1:29, John seeth (i.e.,
saw), Joh. 1:46, Philip findeth and saith (1.Θ., found and said); Joh.
9:13, they bring him (1.Θ., they brought), etc., etc. In all such cases the
figure of Enallage marks the action which is thus emphasized.]

As Melchisedec was a priest all the days of his life, and his was a
mortal life; so Christ was a Priest after the same order; and therefore,
as His life is eternal, and has no limit, His priesthood (unlike that of
Aaron’s) must also be without limit, and He is “a priest for ever.”

Heb. 12:25.-“See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they
escaped not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall
not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven.”
Here the words are correctly repeated from what precedes.

2Pe. 1:19.-“We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto
ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark
place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise; [taking heed, | say] in
your hearts.”

It cannot be that we are to take heed until we are illuminated by
God’s Spirit, or until we are converted! but that we are to take heed to
the word of prophecy in our hearts; for it is like a light shining in a dark
place. A light is for our eyes to see, and for our feet to use, but the
prophetic word is for our hearts to be exercised with. This is contrary
to popular theology. This word declares that the world is the “dark
place,” and prophecy is the only light we have in it, to which we do
well that we take heed. Popular theology says that prophecy is the
“dark place,” and we “do well” to avoid it!
1Jn. 3:10.-“Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not [born] of God,”
from verse 9. So also verse 12, “Not as Cain, who was [born] of that
wicked one.” Also verse 19, “We know that we are [born] of the truth.”
2Jn. 1:2.-“[Loving you] for the truth’s sake,” from verse 1.
2Jn. 1:12.-“Having many things to write unto you, | would not write
with paper and ink.”

Rev. 19:10.-“And | fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me,
See thou do it not,” i.e., “See [thou worship me] not.”
(c) Where an omitted Particle is to be repeated from the
preceding clause
(i.) Negatives

The negative is frequently omitted; and is generally supplied in the
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
Deu. 33:6.-“Let Reuben live, and not die; and let not his men be few.”
1Sa. 2:3.-“Talk no more so exceeding proudly; let not arrogancy come
out of your mouth.”
1К!. 2:9.-“Now therefore hold him not guiltless: for thou art a wise
man, and knowest what thou oughtest to do unto him; but his hoar
head bring thou down to the grave with blood.”
This has been a favourite text with “those that oppose themselves”
(2Ti. 2:25). Misunderstanding the phrase, where David is called “a
man after God’s own heart” (as though it referred to David’s character,
instead of to David’s calling, being chosen by God and not, as Saul
was, by man), infidels have pointed to 1Ki. 2:9 to show David’s
faithless and bloodthirsty character! But if, as in so many other cases,
we repeat the negative from the preceding clause, there is no such
difficulty: “but his hoar head bring thou [nof] down to the grave with
blood.”

True, Solomon did put Shimei to death, but this was for quite
another reason, and as Solomon said, Shimei’s blood was upon his
own head (verse 37).

Thus the passage is brought into agreement with David’s oath to
Shimei, which is repeated in immediate connection with this verse
(verse 8 from 2Sa. 19:23).

Psa. 9:18.-“For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the
expectation of the poor shall not perish for ever.”

Here the negative is supplied by the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] in italics.

Psa. 38:1.-“O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath: and chasten me [nof]
in thy hot displeasure.”
Psa. 75:5.-“Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck.”

Here the negative is supplied, as it is in many passages.
Pro. 25:27.-ЧЁ is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search
their own glory is not glory.”
Isa. 38:18.-“For the grave cannot praise thee, death can not celebrate
thee.”

It is open to question whether
Gen. 2:6 is one of these cases. The three verses 4-6 describe the
condition of the earth before the creation of man (verse 7), and before
the plants and herbs of the field grew. (Compare verses 4 and 9).
Then three negative reasons are given why these did not grow:-(1)
“For (rin) the Lord God had not (Ма) caused it to rain upon the
earth, (2) апа (©) there was a man nowhere (ane) to till the ground,
(3) and (68) [no] mist went up to water the whole face of the ground.”

(ii.) Interrogatives
МОД (lammah). Why?
Psa. 2:1-2.-“Why do the heathen rage, and [why do] the people
imagine a vain thing? [Why do] the kings of the earth set themselves,
and [why do] the rulers take counsel together?”

Psa. 10:1.-Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] repeats it: “Why (МОД) standest
thou afar off, О Lord? why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble?”

ЛОД (kammah). How oft?

Job. 21:17.-“How oft is the candle of the wicked put out! and how oft
cometh their destruction upon them!” Here the words “how off’ are
correctly repeated in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] But why not repeat them also
in the following sentences, instead of supplying the word “God,” and
translate thus: “[How off] He distributeth sorrows in His anger! [How
off] are they as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm
carrieth away! [How off] God layeth up calamity for his (i.e., the wicked
man’s) children.* [Note: The R.V., missing the proper Ellipsis,
arbitrarily introduces the words “Ye say, God layeth up iniquity for his
children,” taking the words as the words of the wicked man instead of
the children!] He recompenseth him and he shall know it; his eyes
shall see his destruction, and he shall drink the wrath of the Almighty.”
айк (eykh). How?
Psa. 73:19.-“How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment!
they are utterly consumed with terrors.” But it is better to repeat the
word “how”:-“How are they utterly consumed with terror!”
айлд (eykah). How!

An exclamation of pain and grief “How!” This gives its title to the
book of Lamentations in the Hebrew Canont [Note: The title in the
English Version is from the Latin Vulgate. See The Names and Order
of the Books of the Old Testament, by the same author and publisher.]
“Eykah.”

Three prophets use this word of Israel:-Moses uses it of Israel in
his glory and pride (Deu. 1:12): Isaiah, of Jerusalem in her dissipation
(Isa. 1:21): and Jeremiah, of Jerusalem in her desolation (Lam. 1:1,
etc.).

Hence, the word very frequently occurs in the book of

Lamentations; and its Ellipsis or omission is frequently to be supplied
by repetition. In many cases this is done in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] Note,
for example:-
Lam. 1:1-2.-“How doth the city sit solitary, that was full of people! how
is she become as a widow! she that was great among the nations, and
princess among the provinces, how is she become tributary! 2. [How]
she weepeth sore in the night,” etc. 3. [How] is Judah gone into
captivity ... 4. [How] the ways of Zion do mourn.”
See also 2:1, 2, etc.; 4:1, 4, 8, 10.
ОД (mah). How!
Joe. 1:18.-“How (Ο/1) do the beasts groan! [How] are the herds of
cattle perplexed!”
TrOog (ad-meh). How long?
Psa. 4:3.-“O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into
shame? how long will ye love vanity?”

Here the interrogative is repeated, but why not repeat it again
instead of supplying the word “and’? Thus:-“[How Jong] will ye seek
after leasing?”

Psa. 89:46.-“How long, Lord? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? [How
long, Lord] shall thy wrath burn like fire?”

TrOobn (ad-mahthai). How long?
Psa. 94:3-4.-“Lord, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the
wicked triumph? How long shall they utter and speak hard things?
[How long] shall all the workers of iniquity boast themselves?”
(d) Where the omission of Connected Words is to be supplied by
repeating them out of a preceding clause

This form of Ellipsis, though it is very clear, is not always supplied in

the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English

Bible, 1611.]

Num. 26:3-4.-“And Moses ... spake ... saying, Take the sum of the

people, from twenty years old and upward,” which words are correctly

repeated from verse 2.

Jos. 24:19.-“And Joshua said unto the people, Ye cannot serve the

Lord: for he is an holy God,” etc.

The words must be supplied from verses 14-16: see also verses
20, 23. Thus:-“Ye cannot serve the Lord [unless ye put away your
idols], for he is a holy God,” etc.

Psa. 84:3.-“Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a
nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O
Lord of hosts, my King and my God.”
There is evidently a figure here: for in what way could birds build
nests and lay young in the altars of God? The one was covered over
with brazen plates, with fires perpetually burning and sacrifices
continually being offered upon it; the other was overlaid with gold, and
was within the Holy Place! The question therefore is, What is the kind
of figure here? It is the figure of Ellipsis, which the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] have made worse by
inserting the word “even” (the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] in italic type, the R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] in Roman). It must be correctly supplied
by repeating the words from the preceding clause: “so hath my soul
found thy altars, О Lord of hosts,” i.e., as the birds find, and love, and
use their house, so / find and love Thy house, my King and my God.

If we observe the structure of the passage,* [Note: See Key to the
Psalms, p. 79. Edited by the same author.] we see how this supply of
the Ellipsis is necessitated:-

а — 1. How amiable are thy tabernacles, О Lord of hosts!

b 2. My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the
Lord: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.
ο 3. Yea, the sparrow hath found an house,
с — апа the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay
her young,
Ь even thine altars, О Lord of hosts, my King and my God.
а — 4. Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: they will be still
praising thee. Selah.
This structure at once puts c and c practically in a parenthesis, and
b and b may be read on literally and connectedly without a break, and
without any apparent Ellipsis; thus:-
b 2. My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the
Lord: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God,
Ь even thine altars, О Lord of hosts, my King and my God.
But Ь read after ο must have the Ellipsis supplied:-“The sparrow
hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself ... [so have /
found] thine altars, O Lord of hosts.”
Pro. 21:1.-“The king’s heart is in the hand of the Lord, as the rivers of
water: he turneth it whithersoever he will.”
Here the second sentence is manifestly incomplete. There is a
subject, but there is no verb, and no object, as will be seen if we
present it in this way:-
Subject. Verb. Object.

The King’s heart as the rivers of water
is ..

in the hand of the Lord. ...

It is clear from this that we have to supply both the verb and the
predicate in the latter sentence. What they are to be will be seen more
clearly when we translate the other words more correctly.

The expression “rivers of water” is in the Hebrew CbMBNOONH
(palgey mayim). Palgey means divisions of, and is the plural construct
of Φμβ (palag), to divide.t [Note: cbMB (palag), to divide, occurs
only in Gen. 10:25. 1Ch. 1:19. “In his days was the earth divided.” Job.
38:25, “Who hath divided a watercourse,” and Psa. 55:9. “Destroy
their tongues and divide them.”] The name of the Patriarch Peleg (i.e.,
division) was so called “because in his days was the earth divided”
(Gen. 10:25). The term palgey mayim* [Note: The word is used of any
very small artificial channel. The following are all the occurrences:-

Job. 29:6. The rock poured me out rivers of oil.

Psa. 1:3. Like a tree planted by the rivers of water.

Psa. 46:4. A river the streams whereof shall make glad.

Psa. 65:9. Enrichest it with the river of God.

Psa. 119:136. Rivers of waters run down mine eyes.
Pro. 5:16. (And) rivers of waters in the streets.

Isa. 30:25. Rivers and streams of waters.

Isa. 32:2. As rivers of water in a dry place.

Lam. 3:48. Mine eye runneth down with rivers of water.] is the
technical term for the little channels, or gullies, of water which divide
the Eastern garden into small squares of about 12 feet each, for
purposes of irrigation. Hence the word is used for any little channel by
which the water is distributed or divided, especially the channels which
divide-up a garden. It is used also of the trickling of tears. In Psa. 1:3,
the man who meditates in the law of God is like a tree planted by the
palgey mayim, i.e., in a garden, where it will have a sure supply of
water and the constant care of the gardener! Not left out in the plain to
shift for itself; to thrive if it gets water, and to die if it does not!

These little channels were filled by the gardener with water from
the spring, or well, or fountain, which every Eastern garden must
possess; and then the water was sent first into one channel, then into
another, by the simple movement of his foot: “the land whither thou
goest in to possess it, is not as the land of Egypt from whence ye
came out, where thou sowedst thy seed, and wateredst it with thy foot,
as a garden of herbs” (Deu. 11:10). The gardener did not deign to use
a tool, or to stoop down and use his hands. By simply moving the foot
he dammed up one little stream, or by a similar movement he
released the water in another.

Now we are able to supply the Ellipsis correctly in this verse:-

“The king’s heart is in the hand of the Lord as the palgey mayim
[are in the hand of the gardener): He turneth it whithersoever He will.”

To an Eastern mind this would be perfectly clear without the supply
of the Ellipsis. Just as in England the expression, “A coach and four” is
perfectly clear, and the supply of the Ellipsis “horses” is wholly
unnecessary. But an Esquimaux or a South Sea Islander, or an Arab,
would ask, “A coach and four what?” It would be unintelligible to him,
while with us it needs no explanation.

So when we learn and understand the customs and peculiarities of
the East we can often supply the Ellipsis from such knowledge, as
Easterns would supply it naturally.

The teaching of the passage then is that just as the little channels
of water in a garden are turned about by the gardener by the simple
movement of his foot, so the king’s heart is as easily turned about by
the Lord, “whithersoever He wills.”
Oh how full of comfort for ourselves, for our friends, for our
children, to know this, and to be assured of it! “On that night could not
the king sleep” (Est. 6:1). A sleepless night! The king’s heart turned-
the law of the Medes and Persians reversed-and Israel delivered. Oh
how simple! Let us never again limit His almighty power-for it is
almighty power that is required to turn the heart of man. We know how
difficult it is to convince even a friend on the simplest matter of fact.
But let us remember that the heart of even an Eastern despot is as
easily turned by the Lord’s mighty hand as the palgai mayim are
turned by the simple movement of a gardener’s foot.

Job. 3:23.-“Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, and whom
God hath hedged in?”
Here the words, “why is light given,” are correctly repeated from
verse 20. This expression about giving light is similar to that of “seeing
the sun” (6:5, and 7:5). Both are idioms (α.ν. [Note: Which 5εε.] ) for
living or being alive, as is clear from verses 20, 21. “Wherefore is light
given,” i.e., why is life prolonged, in the case of those who are in
misery and long for death?

The latter part of the verse may be cleared by noting that the word
“hid,” as applied to “a way,” differs from that in Psa. 2:12. In Psa. 2:12
aor (avad) is to lose a way which is already known. Here, it is СЪШ
(sathar) which implies that the way is not known at all. It hides itself. In
this case God has hidden it and it cannot be found.

What good is life, Job complains, to a man if God has completely
covered up the way? The word СЛК (sakak), rendered “hedged in,”
refers to the way, not to the man, and means, not “hedged in,” but
covered up (see 38:8). It is not the same word as 1:10 (which is μίθκ
(sook), to hedge in), nor as 19:8, as indicated in the margin (which is
BFLL (gadar) to fence up).

Ecc. 7:11-12 has evidently given some trouble, as is clear from the
italics in Text and margin both of A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.]

“Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and by it there is profit to
them that see the sun.” Margin, “as good as an inheritance, yea, better
too.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] reads:-“Wisdom is as
good as an inheritance: yea, more excellent is it for them that see the
sun.” Margin, “is good together with an inheritance: and profitable unto
them,” etc.

We must take TH (im), with, in its idea of accompaniment, in
common with, i.e., like or as (see Gen. 18:23; Gen. 18:25. Job.
3:14-15; Job. 9:26; Job. 21:8; Job. 40:15. Psa. 73:5; Psa. 73:25; Psa.
143:7. Ecc. 2:16), and translate:-

“Wisdom is good, as an inheritance is good, and more excellent to
them that see the sun” (i.e., for living men, see above under Job.
3:23). For to be in (6; b, which is ignored by A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ) the shelter (LIM, tze/, Gen.
19:8; Num. 14:9; Psa. 17:9) of wisdom [is more excellent than to be]
under the shelter (6) of money; and the advantage of wisdom is that
wisdom preserveth the life of them that possess it.”

That is to say, briefly, wisdom is good: and money is good, but

wisdom has this advantage over money; it can preserve life, while an
inheritance or money cannot.
Zec. 14:18.-The verse reads in the Hebrew (see margin):-“And if the
family of Egypt go not up, and come not, not upon them there shall be
the plague wherewith the Lord will smite the heathen that come not up
to keep the feast of tabernacles.”
Here, there is evidently a figure: because, read with verse 17,
there is not only no sense, but quite an opposite sense to that which is
clearly intended. Our duty is to ask, What is the figure? For we are not
at liberty to suggest an alteration of the Text, or to make even a free
translation of it. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] resorts
to the easy method of suggesting in the margin: “The text is probably
corrupt.” This is a very common practice of commentators! It never
seems to enter their heads that the difficulty lies with themselves. It
would have been more becoming to have said, “Our understandings
are probably at fault’! The Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

arbitrarily inserts words, as does the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , and even then
both Versions fail to make sense.

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] says: “That have no rain” (marg. [Note: arg.
Margin.] ‚ “upon whom there is ποῦ).

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] : “Neither shail it be
upon them” (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] , “shall there not be upon them
the plague?’ etc.).

The Ellipsis is Correctly and simply supplied by repeating “there
shall be no rain” from the preceding clause: which, describing
millennial days, says:-

“Whoso will not come up of а/ the families of the earth unto
Jerusalem to worship the King, the Lord of hosts, even upon them
shall be no rain. And if the family of Egypt go not up, and come not,
not upon them [shall there be no гат];* [Note: Because Egypt has no
rain, as it is, and is therefore thus excepted here.] there shall be the
plague, [aforesaid, verse 12] wherewith the Lord will smite the
heathen that come not up to the feast of tabernacles.”

Mat. 2:10.-“When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding
great joy:” i.e., “When they saw the star [standing over where the
young child was], they rejoiced.” The words are to be repeated from
verse 9.

Mat. 13:32.-“Which indeed is the least of all seeds [which a man takes
and sows in a field];” from verse 31; i.e., not the least, absolutely, but
relatively, as to those seeds which are usually sown in the field.

Mar. 5:23.-“And besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth
at the point of death: / pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her, that
she may be healed.”

Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] adds: “/ pray thee,” but it is better to repeat the
verb from the beginning of the verse, and then we may take the other
words literally:-“! beseech thee earnestly that having come thou
wouldest lay on her thy hands,” etc.

Joh. 1:18.-“No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten
Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.” Here
the sense is to be completed by repeating the words from the
preceding clause, thus: “No man hath seen God at any time; the only
begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath [seen God,
and] declared [the Father].”

Joh. 9:3.-Here the Ellipsis is to be supplied from verse 2. “Neither
hath this man sinned, nor his parents [that he should be born blind]:
but that the works of God should be made manifest in him.” See below
(page 107).

Rom. 4:12.-“And the father of circumcision to them who are not of the
circumcision,” etc.
Here the words are to be repeated from the preceding
clause:-“And the father of the circumcision [that righteousness might
be imputed] to them who are not of the circumcision only, but also
walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had
being yet uncircumcised.”

Rom. 5:3.-“And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also,” i.e., “And
not only do we [rejoice in hope of the glory of God], but we glory also
in tribulations.”* [Note: In the Greek the emphasis is on the verb
“glory.” “We GLORY also in tribulations,” i.e., we not only have them
like all other people, but by grace we are able to glory in them. For the
usage of the word “also” see page 90.]

Rom. 5:11.-“And not only so:” i.e., “And not only [are we saved from
wrath through him], but we alsot [Note: In the Greek the emphasis is
on the word “joy.” “We JOY also in God.” See a pamphlet on the
biblical usage of the word Also, by the same author and publisher.]
joy in God [as our God] through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we
have now received the reconciliation.”

It is at this point that the great doctrinal portion of Romans divides
into two portions. It runs from 1:16 to 8:39. Up to 5:11 the subject is
“sins”: from verse 12 it is “sin.” Up to this point the subject is the
products of the old nature: from this point it is the old nature itself. Up
to 5:11 it is the fruits of the old tree: from 5:12 it is the old tree itself. Up
to this point we are considered as “in the flesh”: from this point we are
considered as “not in the flesh,” but the flesh is in us. [Note: See
further, on this, a series of articles in Things to Come commencing
September, 1898.]

Rom. 7:7.-“What shall we say then? [that] the law [ἱ5] sin? God forbid!
Nay, | had not known sin but by (or through) the law; for | had not
known lust [fo be sin] except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet.
But [/ say that] (from verse 7) sin taking occasion by the
commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence (or
desire). For without the law sin [is] dead.”

Rom. 8:23.-“And not only they,” i.e., “And not only [every creature
groaneth], but ourselves also,” etc.

Rom. 9:10.-“And not only this,” i.e., “And not only [was there that
limitation of the promise to this son], but when Rebecca also had
conceived [twins] by one, even by our father Isaac ... it was said unto
her, The elder shall serve the younger.”

Rom. 10:8.-“But what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy
mouth and in thy heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach [is
nigh thee].”

1Co. 15:42.-“So also is the resurrection of the dead.” Here instead of
using the verb substantive we must repeat the words from verses 37
and 41, and then we can preserve the proper emphasis shown by the
position of kai “also”:-“So the RESURRECTION also of the dead [is
with a different body.” This preserves the harmony of the whole
argument.

2Co. 8:19.-“And not that only,” i.e., “And not only [is his praise
throughout all the churches], but he was chosen* [Note: In the Greek
the emphasis is on the word “chosen”:-“CHOSEN also.”] also of the
churches to travel with us with this grace (or gift),” etc.
Col. 3:4.-“When Christ, who is our life, shall appear.” It is a question
whether this Ellipsis should be supplied (as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ) by the verb substantive, or
whether the words should be repeated from the preceding verse,
“When Christ, [with whom] our life [is hid], shall appear, then shall ye
also appear with him in glory.” Many ancient MSS., with Lachmann
(margin), Tischendorf, Tregelles, R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] margin, read “your life.”

2Ti. 1:7.-“For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power,
and of love, and of a sound mind.”

Here, by way of contrast, the words are to be repeated in the
second clause: “but [God hath given to us the spirit] of power, and of
love, and of a sound mind.”

More properly it should be “a” spirit, not “the spirit,” and the fact
that a noun is used (by the figure of Enallage, q.v. [Note: Which see_] )
instead of an adjective, shows us that the emphasis is to be placed on
the adjective. “a COWARDLY spirit,” πνεῦμα δειλίας (рпеита deilias);
δειλίας (deilias), means timidity, fearfulness, cowardice, and always in
a bad sense (see the verb δειλιάω (deiliad), Joh. 14:27. The adjective,
Mat. 8:26. Mar. 4:40. Rev. 21:8).
1Jn. 2:19.-Here the Ellipsis is correctly supplied in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “they
went out.”
1Jn. 5:15.-“And if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask
[according to his will], we know that we have the petitions that we
desired of him.”

Here the words, “according to His will,” are to be supplied from the
preceding verse.
2. Where the omitted word is to be supplied out of a Succeeding

Clause

Jos. 3:3.-“When ye see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God,
and the priests the Levites bearing it [going before], then ye shall
remove from your place, and go after it.”

Here the words “going before” are necessitated, and are to be
supplied from the words that follow-“go after.”
Jdg. 16:13-14.-“If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the
web, [and fastenest them with a pin in the beam (from verse 14), then
shall | be weak and be as another man (from verses 7 and 11)]: and
she fastened it with the pin, etc.” The Arabic and Vulgate Versions
supply these words to complete the sense. See Appendix C.
Homeeoteleuton, where it is shown that this is not really an Ellipsis,
but an ancient omission on the part of some scribe.
1Sa. 16:7.-“The Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance,
or on the height of his stature; because | have refused him: for the
LORD seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward
appearance (Heb. on the eyes), but the Lord looketh on the heart.”
Here the verb “seeth” is correctly repeated from the succeeding
clause. It is not necessary to repeat “the Lord,” though it is true, and
greatly beautifies the English. It may be simply “for it is not as man
seeth,” or, “for / see not as man seeth,” which comes to the same
thing.
1К!. 3:12.-“Lo, | have given thee a wise and understanding heart; so
that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any
arise like unto thee,” i.e., among the kings, which words follow in verse
13. See also 10:23.
1К!. 14:15.-“For the Lord shall smite Israel, [shaking him] as a reed is
shaken in the water.”
1Ch. 4:7.-“And the sons of Helah were, Zereth, and Jezoar, and
Ethnan, [and Coz]”: supply from verse 8.
So, at the end of verse 13 supply “Meonotha/’ from verse 14.
Also, in chap. vi., at end of verse 27, supply “Samuel his son“from
verse 28.* [Note: In this verse there is a strange confusion. Samuel’s
or Shemue''s firstborn was Joel, see verse 33. Vashni (CLU6LU) is
not a proper name, but means “the second.” And the verse reads,
“And the sons of Samuel, the firstborn [Joel, verse 33], the second
Abiah.” See 1Sa. 8:2, and see also above, page 5.]

In chap. vii. at end of verse 18 supply “and Shemidah” from verse
19.

In chap. viii. at end of verse 7 add “and Shaharaim” from verse 8.

In chap. xxv. at end of verse 3 add “and Shime/’ from verse 17,
where he is named. In verse 3 only five out of the six are named. In
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] Shimei’s
name is supplied in the margin.

Neh. 5:2.-“For there were that said, We, our sons, and our daughters,
[being] many, [are mortgaged],” supply from verses 3, 4, 5.

Job. 20:17.-Here the word “floods” means, as in the margin and R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , streaming or flowing, and
belongs to the word “brooks.” But it must be repeated also before the
word rivers, thus:-“He shall not see the flowing rivers, the flowing
brooks of honey and butter.”
Job. 38:19.-The Ellipsis is to be supplied thus:-“Where is the way [to
the place where] light dwelleth? and as for darkness, where is the
place thereof?”
Psa. 35:16.-“With hypocritical mockers in feasts,” i.e., repeating the
latter words of the former sentence.
“With hypocrites [at feasts], mocking at the feast,” i.e., like
parasites who, for the sake of their belly, flatter others.
Pro. 13:1.-“A wise son heareth his father’s instruction: but a scorner
heareth not rebuke.” Here the Ellipsis is plain, and is correctly supplied
in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.]
Isa. 19:11.-“How say ye unto [the wise] Pharaoh, | am the son of the
wise?” etc.
Isa. 31:5.-“As birds flying, so will the Lord of hosts defend Jerusalem.”
Here the word “birds” is feminine. It refers therefore to female
birds, and to maternal love: “As mother-birds fluttering (see Deu.
32:11), or as fluttering birds [defend their young (from the next clause)]
so will the Lord of hosts defend Jerusalem.”

One of the words for defend is ФСеЗ, (pahsék), from CDE3
(pasak), Passover. cbe3 (pasak) means primarily to halt (see Isa.
35:6. Lev. 21:18. 2Sa. 4:4). So 1Ki. 18:21, “How long halt ye
(cpe3in) between two opinions?” Heb., as birds hop backwards and
forwards on two boughs. Hence in Exo. 12:13, it is not “when | see the
blood, | will pass over you;” but, it is cbc3bn ТМЛН, “I will halt or
stop at you, and the plague shall not be upon you,” i.e., Jehovah will
stop or halt at (TIM) the door and not suffer the destroyer to enter. So
the precious blood of Christ stops the hand of justice, and is a perfect
defence to the sinner who is sheltered by it.

Hab. 2:3.-“For the vision [is deferred] for an appointed time,” which
word is clearly implied in the following sentence. See also Mal. 1:10.
Luk. 1:17.-“And [the hearts of the] disobedient to the wisdom of the
just.”

Luk. 22:36.-The Greek reads, “He that hath not, let him sell his
garment and buy a sword.” Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] boldly, correctly,
and idiomatically supplies the Ellipsis in the first member from the
following sentence:-“He that hath no sword, let him sell his garment
and buy one” (see on Luk. 22:37 above).
Joh. 6:32.-“Moses gave you not that bread from heaven,” i.e., “that
[true] bread,” from the succeeding clause: “But my Father giveth you
the true bread from heaven.”

Joh. 6:35.-I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never
hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst.” The exquisite
English of this can never be improved. As an idiomatic version it is
perfect. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] in attempting a
more literal translation is very lame: “not hunger” and “never thirst.” If
we are to be literal, we must supply the Ellipsis by repeating the word
πώποτε (pépote), at any time, from the end of the verse. Both
Versions practically ignore it by including it in the word “never.”

“He that cometh to me shall in no wise hunger [at any time]; and
he that believeth on me shall in no wise thirst at any time,” ie.,
“never,” as expressed thus in both sentences in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]

It is very instructive to note that the negative here is most
emphatic, a doubled negative, which signifies, by no means, in no
wise, in no case; and it is very solemn to notice that whenever it was
used by man, man was never able to make good his asseveration,
e.g., Peter, in Mat. 16:22, said, “This shall not be unto thee,” but it
was. Again in 26:35 he said, “Yet will | not deny thee,” and in Mar.
14:31, “I will not deny thee in any wise,” but Peter did deny the Lord
Jesus! His enemies, in Joh. 11:56, declared, “He will not come to the
feast,” but He did! Peter, in Joh. 13:8, declared, “Thou shalt never
wash my feet,” but Jesus did! Thomas, in Joh. 20:25, declared, “I will
not believe,” but he did, and that without fulfilling his condition!* [Note:
In all this we have a solemn warning to let our yea be yea, and our
nay nay (Mat. 5:37).] On the other hand, how sure, how true, how
certain are the declarations of the Lord Jesus when made with this
same positiveness. Among others note:-

Mat. 5:18. “One jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the
law till all be fulfilled.”

Mat. 5:20. “Except your righteousness exceed the
righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no
case enter into the kingdom of heaven.”

Luk. 22:34. “The cock shall not crow this day.” Joh. 13:38.

Joh. 6:37. “Him that cometh unto me, | will in no wise cast out,”
ié., no never, no never cast out.

Heb. 8:12. “Their sins and their iniquities will | remember no
more,” {6., in no wise will | remember any more.
Heb. 13:5. “I will never leave thee nor forsake thee.”

1Pe. 2:6. “He that believeth on him shall not be confounded.”*
[Note: For other examples see Joh. 4:14; Joh. 8:12; Joh.
10:28. Rom. 4:8. 1Th. 4:15; 1Th. 5:3. Heb. 10:17. 2Pe.
1:10. Rev. 3:12, etc.

All these are the immutable promises and purposes of the
living God, and though we are to “cease from man, whose
breath is in his nostrils,” the word of the Lord endureth for
ever. See further under the figure called Repeated
Negation, below.]

Joh. 9:2.-“And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin,
this man [that he is blind], or his parents, that he was born blind?”
(See above, page 101).

Joh. 12:25.-“He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his
life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal.”

Here two expressions are to be repeated from the latter clause, in
the former:-“He that loveth his life [in this world] shall lose it [unto
eternity.”

Act. 2:3.-“And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of
fire, and it sat upon each of them,” i.e., the Holy Spirit, as is clear from
the next verse.
The verse may be rendered:-“And there appeared unto them,
distributed, tongues like as of fire; and he [the Holy Ghost] sat (or
dwelt) upon each of them.” The tongues were not divided into two
parts, as suggested by the popular term “cloven tongues,” but they
were divided, or distributed, among the Twelve.

Act. 7:59.-“And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying,
Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.”

The Greek reads, “calling upon and saying.” There is evidently an
Ellipsis after the verb “calling upon,” which the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
supplies with the word “God.” The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] supplies the word “Lord.”

The meaning is clear, that Stephen being full of the Holy Ghost
addressed his prayer to Christ, and his words were “Lord Jesus,
receive my spirit.”. Both words must therefore be repeated
thus:-“calling upon the Lord Jesus and saying [Lord Jesus] receive my
spirit.” By this Ellipsis the emphasis is thrown on the act of invocation
and shows that this act of prayer was addressed to the Lord Jesus,
ie., Lord, who art Jesus: or, Jesus who art the Lord.

Where two substantives are placed together in the same gender,
number and case, the latter is in apposition to, and is explanatory of
the former; or, there is an Ellipsis of the words of explanation, “that is
to say,” or “that is.” Sometimes this is supplied by the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
sometimes it is not. See Deu. 22:8, “a damsel that is a virgin.” Jdg.
11:1, margin, “a woman an harlot.” Gen. 13:8, margin, “men brethren.”
Num. 32:14, “an increase of sinful men,” the Hebrew reads:-“an
increase of men who are sinners.” Mat. 18:23, “a certain King”; Greek,
“a man that is a King,” as in 20:1, where the Ellipsis is supplied, “a
man that is an householder.” Luk. 2:15, margin, 24:19, “a prophet”;
Greek, “a man that is a prophet.” Act. 2:29, “men and brethren”;
Greek, “Men who are brethren,” and verse 22, “men of Israel”; Greek,
“men who are Israelites.” So here, Act. 7:59, “Lord, who art Jesus”-
compare Rev. 22:20.
Rom. 2:12.-“For as many as have sinned without law, shall perish also
without [being judged by] law: and as many as have sinned in the law
(or under law) shall be judged by the law.”
Rom. 2:28-29 is an elliptical passage in the Greek, which the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] covers by a free translation.

Adhering to the order and literal meaning of the words in the
original, we must translate and supply as follows:-
“For not he that [is a Jew] outwardly, is a Jew, neither that which [is
circumcision] outwardly in the flesh, is circumcision; but he that [/s a
Jew] inwardly, is a dew, and circumcision of heart in the spirit and not
in the letter [is circumcision].”

Rom. 4:13.-This verse is translated very freely in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
Following the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , we may
supply the Ellipsis from the end of the verse, which it has missed:-“For
not through [righteousness of] law was the promise [made] to
Abraham, or to his seed, that he should be the heir of the world, but
through righteousness of faith.”
Rom. 5:16.-“Also not as [the judgment or sentence came] through one
that sinned [/s] the free gift: for the judgment (κρῖμα) [was] after one
[transgression] unto condemnation (κατάκριµα); but the free gift is
after many offences unto δικαίωµα ({8., a righteous acquittal).” (See
below, page 111).
N.B.-It is not δικαιοσύνη (dikaiosunee) which is the attribute of
righteousness; nor is it δικαίωσις (dikaidsis) which is the act of the
Judge in justifying; but it is δικαίωµα (dikaiéma) which is the outcome
of the act, the just thing done.
1Co. 1:26-27.-“For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many
wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called,
but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the
wise,” etc.

Here the words “are called” are repeated from the preceding
clause, but “are chosen,” i.e., to confound, etc., might be supplied
from the succeeding clause. (See above page 58).
1Co. 5:4-5.-we must supply in verse 4 the verb “to deliver” from verse
5-

πο deliver] in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ (ye, and my
spirit, being gathered together, with the power of our Lord Jesus
Christ), to deliver [/ say] such an one unto Satan for the destruction of
the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.”
1Co. 6:12.-“All [meats (from verse 13)] are lawful unto me [fo еай, but
all are not profitable; (see 10:33) all [meats] are lawful for me [fo еай,
but | will not be brought under the power of any [теай. Compare
10:23.
1Со. 14:22.-“But prophesying [is for a sign (from previous sentence)]
not for them that believe not, but for them which believe.”
1Со. 15:47.-“The first man is of the earth, earthy: the second man, the
Lord from heaven, [is heavenly (from verse 48).” See above on Act.
7:59, as to these two nouns, “the second man [who is] the Lord.”
2Co. 5:10.-“That every one may receive the things done in his body,
according to that he hath done, whether good or bad.”

Here the verb “done” is correctly supplied from the succeeding
clause.
Eph. 2:1.-There is evidently an Ellipsis in this verse; which has been
variously supplied by translators; the usual mode being to Supply the
words from a succeeding clause (verse 5) as in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] So in
the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ‚ “did he quicken.” But it 15
worth consideration whether it may not be supplied from 1:19, 20, “the
exceeding greatness of his power to us-ward, who believe, according
to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ when
he raised him from the dead ... and you [when you were raised in
Him, and quickened with Him] were dead in trespasses and sins,” etc.
It may also be supplied by repeating the verb from 1:23, “Which is
his body, the fulness of him which filleth all [his saints] with all [spiritual
gifts]. And you [hath he thus filled] who were dead in trespasses and
sins “(chap. 2:1): καὶ ὑμᾶς ὄντας, “and you when ye were,” must be
compared with verse 5, καὶ ὄντας ἡμᾶς, “and we when we were.” This
points to the use of the verb “quickened” in each case.

Php. 3:13.-“Brethren, | count not myself to have apprehended [the
prize (from verse Ί4)]: but this one thing / do, forgetting those things
which are behind [me], and reaching forth unto those things which are
before [me], etc.”

2Ti. 1:5.-“When | call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in
thee.”

There is no verb in the Greek, and the words that is should have
been placed in italics. The Greek reads, “Taking remembrance of the
unfeigned faith [dwelling in thee (from the succeeding clause)], which
dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, and | am
persuaded that [it dwelleth] in thee also.” Here it is repeated from the
preceding clause.
Tit. 2:2.-“That the aged men be sober, grave, etc.” Supply the verb
“exhort’ from verse 6 here, and also in verses 4 and 9:-“[Exhort] that
the aged men be sober, etc.”
Heb. 8:1.-“We have such an high priest, who is set on the right hand
of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens,” {6., “such a high priest
[as became us]” (from 7:26).
Il. Complex: Where both Clauses are Involved

An abbreviated form of expression, in which an Ellipsis in the first of
two members has to be supplied from the second, and at the same
time an Ellipsis in the second member has to be supplied from the
first.

Simple Ellipsis puts one member, and leaves the other to be
inferred.

Complex Ellipsis puts two members, and implies two others, and
these two are interchanged. Hence this figure has been called
“Semiduplex Oratio,” i.e., semi-double discourse.
1. Where single words are involved
Pro. 10:1.-“A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish son {5 the
heaviness of his mother.”

Here the word “father” in the former clause is to be understood in
the latter; and the word “mother” in the latter clause is to be
understood in the former. For a wise son is a joy to a mother as well
as to a father, and a foolish son is a heaviness to a father as well as to
a mother.

See also chaps. 15:20; 17:25; 23:24; 30:17.

Mat. 23:29.-“Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
because ye build the tombs of the prophets, and garnish the
sepulchres of the righteous.”

Here the word “build” refers also to the “sepulchres” of the latter
clause; and the word “garnish” refers also to the word “tombs” of the
former clause.

Le., ye not only build the tombs of the prophets, but ye garnish
them: ye not only garnish the sepulchres of the righteous, but ye build
them.
Rom. 5:16.-“And not as it was by one that sinned so {5 the gift: for the
judgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many
offences unto justification.”

There is evidently an Ellipsis here, as is shown by the italics
employed in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] and the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] But the question is, Is the omission correctly supplied? We
submit the following, treating the first clause as a complex Ellipsis:-

“And not, as [the judgment came] by one that sinned, [does] the
free gift [come by one who was righteous]: for the judgment [was
death] after one [offence] to condemnation, but the free gift [is pardon]
after many offences, unto justification;” i.e., Adam brought the
judgment of death by one sin, Christ by bearing that judgment,
brought life and pardon for many sins. (See above, page 108).

Rom. 10:10.-“With the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and
with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.”

Here “righteousness” is to be understood in the latter clause, as
well as “salvation”; and “salvation” is to be understood in the former
clause, as well as “righteousness.” Moreover “confession” must be
made with the heart as well as with the mouth; and righteousness
includes salvation. The full completion of the sense is:-“With the heart
man believeth unto righteousness [and salvation] and with [the heart
and] the mouth confession is made unto [righteousness and]
salvation.”

2. Where Sentences are involved
Psa. 1:6.-“For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous; but the way
of the ungodly shall perish.”
In the former sentence we have the cause, in the latter the effect.
But both effect and cause are latent in each statement: “The Lord
knoweth the way of the righteous [and it shall not perish], but [the Lord
knoweth] the way of the ungodly [and if] shall perish.”

Psa. 42:8.-“The Lord will command his loving kindness in the daytime
and in the night his song shall be with me.”

Here the Ellipsis is insufficiently supplied by the words, “shall be.”
The Ellipsis is complex, and to be understood thus:-The Lord will
command his loving kindness [and his song with me] in the daytime,
and in the night also [he will command his loving kindness and] his
song.

Isa. 32:3.-“And the eyes of them that see shall not be dim, [and they
shall see]: and the ears of them that hear shall [not be dull, buf]
hearken.”

Joh. 5:21.-“For like as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth
them; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will.”

Here the Ellipsis is treated as being Simple, instead of Complex,
and is supplied by the word “them.” But the words “raiseth up the
dead” in the former clause are latent in the latter, while the words
“whom he will” in the latter clause are latent in the former, thus:-
“For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth [whom he
will]; even so the Son [raiseth up the dead, and] quickeneth whom he
will].”

Or according to the Greek, “So THE SON also.”

Joh. 8:28.-“I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, |
speak these things;” i.e., “Of myself | do nothing [nor speak]; but |
speak these things as the Father hath taught me, [and / do them].”

See a similar illustration in verse 38.

Joh. 14:10.-“The words that | speak unto you | speak not of myself:
but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works.”

This complex Ellipsis must be understood as follows:-“The words
which | speak unto you, | speak not of myself, [but the Father that
dwelleth in me, he speaketh them]: and [the works which | do, | do not
of myself], but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works.”
Joh. 17:26.-“And | have declared unto them thy name, and will
declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them,
and | in them,” i.e., “And | have declared to them thy name, and will
declare [thy love]: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be
in them, and | [and my love] may be in them.”
Rom. 6:4.-“Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death:
that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the
Father,” etc.

The complex Ellipsis here may be thus worked out: “Therefore we
are buried with him by His baptism-unto-death [and raised again from
the dead], that like as Christ was [buried and] raised again from the
dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in
newness of life.” (See pages 18, 19, on the context of this passage).
Heb. 12:20.-“And if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be
stoned, or thrust through with a dart.” In Exo. 19:13, the text is, “There
shall not a hand touch it, for he shall surely be stoned or shot through
with a dart; whether it be man or beast, he shall not live.”

Here the man was to be stoned and the beast shot. In the MSS.
words have been gratuitously inserted by transcribers to make sense,
in ignorance of the complex Ellipsis. The sense is made clear thus:-

“And if so much as [a man or] a beast touch the mountain-[if a man
touch] it, he shall be stoned [and if a beast touch it, it shall be] thrust
through with a dart.”
False Ellipsis
There are not only many instances where the Ellipses which exist in
the original have been incorrectly supplied in the translation: but there
are cases also of italics being inserted, where there is really no Ellipsis
in the original.

In these cases the italics have been necessitated by the faulty
translation, and not by the Text.

We give a few examples, arising from various causes:

Gen. 37:12-13.-“And his brethren went to feed their father’s flock in
Shechem. And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the
flock in Shechem?”

The Massorah gives the words rendered “their father’s flock” as
one of the fifteen dotted words,* [Note: See Ginsburg’s Introduction,
pp. 320, 325. Also The Massorah, by the same author and publisher.]
i.e., words which ought to be cancelled in reading, though they have
not been removed from the Text. If these words are removed, then the
inference is that they had gone to feed themselves and make merry,
and the words “the flock’ in verse 13 need not be inserted in italics.
Num. 16:1.-The last word “men” is necessitated by having put the
verb “took” out of its place. There is no Ellipsis. The verse reads that
“Korah ... and Dathan and Abiram ... and On took the sons of
Reuben.” Or that Korah ... took Dathan ... and Abiram ... and On, the
son of Peleth, the sont [Note: According to the Samaritan Pentateuch
and the Septuagint Version and a few MSS.] of Reuben.

Deu. 29:29.-“The secret things belong unto the Lord our God, but
those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children for
ever, that we may do all the words of this law.”

The italics thus supplied make excellent sense in English, but this
is not the sense of the Hebrew.

The Massorah gives the words, “to the Lord our God,” as being
one of fifteen examples in which the words are dotted and which are
therefore to be cancelled in reading.t [Note: See Ginsburg’s
Introduction, pp. 370, 572.] If these words be removed the sense will
be, “The secret things and the revealed things are for us and for our
children for ever, that we may do all the words of this law,” i.e., the
secret things which have not been, but will yet be revealed. Compare
chap. 30:11-14.

Deu. 32:34-35.-Here, in verse 35, the word “belongeth” is inserted in
italic type through reading the Hebrew Miu (lee) as being the
preposition and pronoun “to me.” But the Й (yod) is really the
abbreviation of the word Йен (убт) day, * [Note: See Ginsburg’s
Introduction, Part ., chap. м., pp. 165-170.] as is clear from the
Targum of Onkelos, the Samaritan Pentateuch, and the Septuagint
translation Taking, then, Min (lee) as being an abbreviation of ΜΜΘΗ
(Гуот) for the day, the four lines form an alternate correspondence:
the first line reading on consecutively with the third, and the second
with the fourth, thus:-

а — 15 not this laid up in store with me,

Ь Sealed up in my treasuries
а — For the day of vengeance and recompense,
Ь — For the time when their foot shall slip?

Here, b is in a parenthesis with respect to a and a, while a is ina
parenthesis with respect to b and b; and the passage really reads thus
as regards the actual sense; “Is not this laid up in store with me for the
day of vengeance and recompense:

“Sealed up in my treasuries for the time when their foot shall
slide?”

The word ΜΜΘΗ (Губт), for the day, corresponds with МТЪ
(Vath), for the time.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] renders the last two
lines, “Vengeance is mine and recompense, at the time when their foot
shall slide.”
Jos. 24:17.-“For the Lord our God, He it is that brought us up and our
fathers out of the land of Egypt.” Here the two words “it is” are
supplied in italics, because it is not observed that there is an
Homeeoteleuton§ [Note: See Ginsburg’s Introduction, Part ΙΙ. chap. vi.
pp. 171-182.] (αν. [Note: Which see.] ) in the Hebrew Text; i.e., the
Scribe having written the word “He” omitted the next word “is God,” his
eye going back to a second “He” which follows it. This is clear from the
fact that the words “is God” are preserved in the Septuagint
translation.

The passage therefore reads, “For the Lord our God, He is God,
He brought us up, etc.,” thus emphasizing the pronoun “He” by
Repetition (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).
1Sa. 24:9-10.-“David said to Saul ... some bade me kill thee, but mine
eye spared thee.” The Hebrew Text as it now stands is CbbC
(vattachas) but she spared thee. This yields no sense, so the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] have followed the
Vulgate and inserted “mine eye” in italics. But Dr. Ginsburg points out*
[Note: Introduction, pp. 291, 292.] that in all probability in the
transcription of the Text from the ancient Phoenician characters into
the square characters, (which is A) was mistaken for (which is b)
and so b3C, she spared, was written instead of A3C, / spared. There
can be no question that this was the primitive reading as it is
preserved in the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]
Chaldee, and Syriac.

2Sa. 1:18.-“He bade them teach the children of Judah the use of the
bow: behold, it is written in the book of dasher.”

Here the words supplied are manifestly incorrect. It should be, “He
commanded them to teach the children of Judah ‘The Bow,’ or [this
Song ой ‘The Bow,’ behold, it is written in the book of Jashar,” i.e., the
upright, a book of national songs, probably, but of which nothing is
known. It is clear that this song of David's had not already been
written in that book, but he gave directions that it should be there
written. See also Jos. 10:13.
2Sa. 1:21.-“For there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, the
shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil.”

The italics are wrongly supplied through not knowing that Omi
(b'lee) not should be Omi Т [Note: This is the reading of the first
Edition of the Hebrew Bible, Soncino, 1488; also of the Syriac and
Arabic Versions, and the Chaldee paraphrase. The mistake of a for &
could be easily made.
See Ginsburg’s Introduction, p. 144.] (k’lee) weapons.

With this emendation the verse reads:-

“For there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away,

The shield of Saul, the weapons anointed with oil,”

or, “The weapons of him anointed with oil.”
1К!. 20:33.-“Now the men did diligently observe whether anything
would come from him, and did hastily catch it.”

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] is a loose paraphrase. The R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] indicates the difficulty. In the Eastern
Recension the words are divided differently from the Textus
Receptus,} [Note: See Ginsburg’s Introduction, p. 438.] and should
be rendered,

“Now the men divined and hasted [i.e., by Hendiadys (q.v. [Note:
Which see] ) quickly divined (his drift)] and they pressed whether it
was from him, and they said, etc.”

Neh. 4:12.-“They said unto us ten times, from all places whence ye
shall return unto us, [they will be upon you],” margin, “that from all
places ye must return to us.”
The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] puts the margin of
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] in the Text, and the Text in the margin.

It appears that it is not a case in which the apodosis is to be
supplied, but it may be taken literally. “They said unto us ten times,
From all places ye shall return unto us.”

Psa. 1:4.-“The ungodly are not so.” Lit., “Not so the ungodly.”

The structure of the Psalm shows that

Verse 1 corresponds with verse 5.
Verse 2 corresponds with verse 4-.
Verse 3 corresponds with verse -4.
Verses 1-3 concerning the godly.
Verses 4 and 5 the ungodly.

Thus:-

present.

А 1-3. The godly
В 4, 5. The ungodly
future.
А 6-. The godly
В -6. The ungodly
The first two may be expanded thus:-
The godly.
A a — 1. Their blessing (not standing with the ungodly now)
Their way.
Ь — 2. Their character
ο 3. Comparison
The ungodly.
Their way.
B Ь 4-. Their character
ο. -4. Comparison
8 5. Their punishment (not standing with the godly in the
judgment)
Therefore verse 4 corresponds with verse 2; and verse 2 must be
understood, if not supplied, thus:-“Not so the ungodly: their delight is
not in the law of the Lord, neither do they meditate in His law, etc.”
For the Ellipsis in verse 5 see page 82.

Psa. 2:12.-“And ye perish from the way.” R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] “and ye perish in the way.”

There is no “in” or “from” in the Hebrew: it is literally, “and ye lose
the way.” To lose the way is a Hebrew idiom for perishing, or being
lost. It ought either to be translated literally, “and ye lose the way,” or
idiomatically, “and ye be lost,” or, “and ye perish.” Psa. 1:1-6 ends with
the perishing of “the way,” and Psa. 2:1-12 ends with the perishing of
those who refuse to walk in it, by submitting themselves to the Son.
“Kiss,” Psa. 2:12, is the same as “be ruled by” in Gen. 41:40, margin.
Psa. 10:3.-“For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth
the covetous whom the Lord abhorreth.” Margin, “and the covetous
blesseth himself, he abhorreth the Lord.”

The struggles of the Revisers to make sense of the present
Hebrew Text may be seen in their rendering:

“For the wicked boasteth of his heart’s desire, and the covetous
renounceth, yea, contemneth the Lord.” Margin, “and blesseth the
covetous, but revileth the Lord.”

The simple fact is that this is one of the passages altered by the
Sopherim through a mistaken reverence, in order to avoid the uttering
of the words involving a curse on Jehovah. But in this case, having
altered “he blasphemeth” into “he blesseth,” the word “blesseth” they
did not remove it from the text. Hence both words now stand in the
printed text, which is as follows:

“For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire; and the robber
blesseth, blasphemeth the Lord.”* [Note: See Ginsburg’s Introduction,
р. 365.]

If we simply remove the word “blesseth,” we have the primitive text
without more ado, and have no need to supply any Ellipsis.

Psa. 19:3.-“There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not
heard.”

Here the word “where” seems to be unnecessarily supplied. The
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] omits it. The sense appears
to be, as expressed in the margin, “without these their voice is heard.”
That is to say, with regard to the heavens “[they have] no speech nor
language; their voice is not heard,” and yet they do utter speech, they
do declare knowledge; and their words go forth through all the earth.t
[Note: See The Witness of the Stars (by the same author and
publisher), pp. 4-6.]
Psa. 27:13.-“/ had fainted unless | had believed to see the goodness
of the Lord in the land of the living.”

The words, “/ had fainted,” both in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] , are an arbitrary addition in order to
make sense.

The difficulty arises from disregarding the fact that the word
“unless” is dotted in the printed text, and should be cancelled in
reading. It is cancelled in the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version
(325 b.c.).] Syriac and Vulgate, and the clause should be rendered:

“| believe that | shall see the goodness of the Lord in the land of
the living.”* [Note: See Ginsburg’s Introduction, p. 333.]

Psa. 68:16.-“Why leap ye, ye high hills? This is the hill which God
desireth to dwell in.”

Here, by taking ШЦГ (ratzad) as meaning to leap, the sense has
been obscured, and then the attempt is made to clear it by the use of
the italics.

ШЦГ occurs only here, and is an Arabic word, which means to
look askance at, or to envy, and the verse reads naturally: “Why do ye
envy, О ye high hills, the hill God desired for His seat?” i.e., Sinai, see
verse 17. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] agrees with
this.

Psa. 69:4.-“They that would destroy me, being mine enemies
wrongfully.”

The Syriac supplies a letter (T), thus giving the reading, “more
than my bones,” instead of “they that would destroy me being,” etc. So
that the verse reads:

“They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my
head;

“They that are mine enemies falsely are more than my bones.”
Psa. 69:20 (21).-Ί looked for some to take pity, but there was none;
and for comforters, but | found none.”

Translated more closely with the Chaldee, Septuagint, Syriac, and
Vulgate, we may dispense with the italics:-

“| looked for a sympathizer, but there was none. And for
comforters, but | found none.”
Psa. 75:5 (6).-“Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff
neck.”

Here, owing to the fact that quiescent letters are sometimes
inserted and sometimes omitted in the Heb. text, the A (aleph) is
inserted in the word Ouew (b'tzur) rock, making it 6ueaw
(b’tzavwvahr) neck. The LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325
b.c.).] evidently read it as rock, without the aleph, and the passage
ought to read without the italics:-

“Do not exalt your horn toward heaven, nor speak arrogantly of the

Rock.”
Psa. 118:5.-“I called upon JAH in distress: Jehovah answered me,
and set me in a large place.” According to the Western Recension of
the Heb. text (which the Textus Receptus follows) Goms6ng
(Bammerchavyah) is one word, and means in a large place, and
hence, with freedom or with deliverance (compare Hos. 4:16, Psa.
31:8). But according to the Eastern Recension the reading is
presented in two words 601136 WG; * [Note: See Ginsburg’s
Introduction, pp. 385, 386.] and the verse should be rendered:
“I called upon JAH in my distress. He answered me with the
deliverance of JAH.”

It will be noted that both the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] ignore the Textus Receptus, and not only divide the
word into two, but remove it from the end to the beginning of the line.
Consequently they have to supply the sense with the italics, “and set
me.”

Psa. 126:3.-“Whereof we are glad.” Here the word “whereof’ is
unnecessary.

The structure gives:-

а 2-. Our gladness.

Ь -2. The Lord’s great things.
Ь — 3-. The Lord’s great things.
а -3. Our gladness.
Or fully thus:-
а _2-. Then was our mouth filled with laughter and our tongue
with singing.
b -2. Then said they among the heathen, The Lord hath
done great things for them.
Ь — 3-. The Lord hath done great things for us:

а — -3. Weare glad.

It will be seen how а answers to a, and b 10 b.

Psa. 127:2.-‘It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the
bread of sorrows; for so he giveth his beloved sleep.”

Here the word “for’ is unnecessarily introduced, creating a
confusion of thought and hiding the meaning. Translated correctly, the
sense is perfect without any human addition. The word “so,” is On
thus, in this manner. № refers to what follows, viz., to the Lord’s way of
giving in contrast to man’s way of “works.” God's spiritual blessings
are not obtained by incessant labour-rising early and sitting up late,
nor by painful and sorrowful effort. “Thus He giveth”-this is the way He
giveth to His beloved-How? “sleeping” or while they sleep. uypa
(sheynah) is an adverbial accusative, meaning “in sleep.”
It was in this way He gave His wondrous gifts to Solomon. His
name was (ὔγήτήῃ) “Yedidiah,” i.e., beloved of Jehovah (238.
12:25). The word here is also ЙГИГ Yedeed, i.e., beloved. And this
Psalm relates to Solomon, as we learn from the Title. Solomon knew
by a blessed experience how God gave to him His richest blessings
while he was “sleeping” (1Ki. 3:3-15). Even so He gave to Adam a
Bride (Gen. 2:21-22); to Abram, the everlasting Covenant (Gen.
15:12-16), and to Jedidiah “His beloved,” wisdom, riches and honour.
“Thus He giveth to His beloved while they sleep” when they are
helpless and are unable to put forth any effort of works, by which to
earn the blessing, and in which the flesh might glory before God.
(1Со. 1:29.)

How wondrously He gives! E’en while we sleep-

When we from all our “works” have ceased, and rest;

And He our life doth mercifully keep,

Then, without works, are His beloved blest.* [Note: Rom. 11:6.]

Yes! “His beloved”! lovéd not because
Of any work which we have ever done;t [Note: Tit. 3:5.]

But loved in perfect grace, “without a cause”:¢ [Note: Rom. 3:24.
“Being justified freely by His grace.” The word “freely” here is
the same word (222223) dérean as in Joh. 15:25, where it is
rendered “without a cause.” (“They hated me without a
cause”). There was absolutely no cause why our blessed Lord
Jesus was “hated.” Even so it is with regard to our
justification:-“Being justified without a cause by His grace.”]
This is the source whence all our blessings come.

He gives in sleep! In vain we toil and strive-

And rise up early and so late take rest:
But, while our powers in sweetest sleep revive,
And we abandon all our anxious quest-

Then He bestows His gifts of grace on us,

And where we've never sown, He makes us reap

A harvest, full of richest blessing. “Thus
He gives to His belovéd while they sleep.”
Song Son. 8:6.-“For love is strong as death: jealousy is cruel as the
grave: the coals thereof are coals of fire, which hath a most vehement
flame.” This last sentence is the rendering of one word in the Textus
Receptus μιμμσρήῃ (Shalhebethyah), but, according to the
Eastern Recension, and several early editions, it is divided into two
words, “the flames of Jah.” Hence the sense is:
“Love is strong as death.
Affection is inexorable as Hades.
Its flames are flames of fire.
The flames of Jah.”§ [Note: See Ginsburg’s Introduction, p.
386]
The second and fourth lines are the intensification of the first and
third.
The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] renders the last line,

“A very flame of the Lord.”
Eze. 22:20.-“As they gather silver, and brass, and iron, and lead, and
tin, into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to melt it: so
will | gather you in mine anger and in my fury, and | will leave you
there and melt you.”

It will be noticed that this last sentence is a non sequitur, both as
to rhythm and parallelism. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] is no clearer: “And | will lay you there.”

The fact is that the letter Ф (Pe) т едфзЗЪЙ (v’hippachtee), in
the ancient and primitive text was mistaken for ) (nun), (owing to the
similarity of the Phoenician characters, when transcribed into the more
modern square characters); and thus / will blow became / will leave,
and then the two words, “you there,” had to be supplied in order to
make sense.* [Note: See Ginsburg’s Introduction, p. 294.] The
parallelism is thus beautifully perfect:

а — As they gather ...

Ь toblow...
cto melt it:
а Sowwilll gather ...
Ь — апа | will blow
с — апа melt you.

It will be seen how the words, “I will leave,” mar this structure.

Hos. 4:7.-“As they were increased, so they sinned against me:
therefore will | change their glory into shame.”

The word “therefore” is inserted by the translators; who did not
know that this is one of the eighteen emendations of the Sopherimt
[Note: See Appendix E: and Ginsburg’s Introduction, p. 357.] by
which the primitive text, “my glory,” by the change of one letter (ἄ for
H) became “their glory,” and the first person became the third. The
original text stood:-

“As they increased, so they sinned against me:
They have changed my glory into shame;
They eat up,” etc.

A like alteration was made in Jer. 2:11, and very anciently; for it is
followed by the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ,
the ancient versions, and A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] It should be “my glory,” not “their glory.”

Jon. 3:9.-“Who can tell if God will turn and repent, and turn away from
his fierce anger, that we perish not?”

Here it is not necessary to put the word “if’ in italics. The Hebrew
idiom, in the formula or expression OM OWETT (mee yodeah) means
who knoweth? in the sense of no one knows whether, or no one
knows but that (see Psa. 90:11. Ecc. 2:19; Ecc. 3:21; Ecc. 6:12; Ecc.
8:1. Joe. 2:14). The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
translates Jon. 3:9 as the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] renders Ecc. 2:19, “who
knoweth whether” (without italics).

Ralph Venning* [Note: Orthodox Paradoxes, 1650-1660 a.d.]

beautifully expresses the theology of this and similar passagest
[Note: Such as 2Ch. 34:19-21. Isa. 39:5; Isa. 39:8.] in the following
lines:-

“But stay! Is God like one of us? Can He,

When He hath said it, alter His decree?

Denouncéd judgment God doth oft prevent,
But neither changeth counsel nor intent;

The voice of heaven doth seldom threat perdition,

But with express or an implied condition:

So that, if Nineveh return from ill,

God turns His hand: He doth not turn His will.”
Mal. 3:9.-“Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even
this whole nation.” This must be added to the eighteen emendations of
the Sopherim.¢ [Note: See Appendix E: and Ginsburg’s Introduction,
p. 3631]

The primitive text was, “Ye have cursed me with a curse.” The
active was changed into the passive by putting [ for О.
Mat. 20:23.-“To sit on my right hand, and on my left, is not mine to
give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my
Father.”

This supply of the Ellipsis has caused much confusion. The R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] also unnecessarily inserts “but it
is for them for whom it is prepared of my Father.”

The passage reads:-“To sit on my right hand, and on my left, is not
mine to give but [it is already given] to them for whom it is prepared of
my Father.”

Mar. 11:13.-“And seeing a fig-tree afar off having leaves, he came, if
haply he might find anything thereon: and when he came to it, he
found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet.”

Here, want of accuracy in the translation has created a difficulty,
and the word “yet’ has been added, in order to meet it. Want of
attention to the full meaning of the Greek has led to alterations of the
Text itself by various copyists: for man is always ready to assume
anything to be at fault, except his own understanding.

The last clause, by the figure of Hyperbaton (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ), is put out of its grammatical order; for the purpose of calling
attention to it, and to complete the structure (see below). Naturally, it
would follow the word “thereon.” The word “for” introduces the
explanation of “if haply.” It does not give the reason why He found
nothing, but the reason why it was doubtful.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] translates literally,
“for it was not-the season of figs:” but still leaves the difficulty of Jesus
going to find figs when it was not the fig-season.

There are two or three points to be noted:

The word καιρός (kairos) means not “time,” which is χρόνος
(chronos), but a limited portion of time, and always with the idea of
Suitability; hence, the right time, proper season, stated season, when
the thing referred to comes to a head, or crisis. Hence, applied to a
tree, it denotes the ordinary and regular fruit-season of that
tree.* [Note: It is interesting to note that in modern Greek, the word
22222? (kairos), season, has come to mean “weather”; while 222222
(chronos) time, is now used not merely of time, but “year.”] The
Passover did not occur at the proper fig-season; but figs remained on
the trees (dried) right through the winter. These, which could generally
be found, were called cbB (pag). The name is preserved in the word
Bethphage (βηθφαγή, for 6”bOchaBi, house of figs). At the time
of the Passover, such figs might well have been looked for.
The Lord went to see “if consequently (ei Gea) he might find
anything thereon.” It was “if consequently,” because “it was not the
proper season of figs” (oUka, suka: not ὄλυνθοι, olunthoi, as the others
were called, and for which He sought).

We must also remember that in the East all fruit trees were
enclosed in gardens, and had an owner. This tree, though, by the
roadside (Mat. 21:19) must have been enclosed, and as it grew over
the wall, passers by might partake of the fruit. But the owner had
probably shaken the fruit off, or gathered it himself, and hence
deserved the judgment which came upon him (see Lev. 19:9-10; Lev.
23:22. Deu. 24:19-21). This is one of the two miracles of destruction
wrought by Jesus: and we know that in the other case the owners of
the swine were justly punished.
The miracle has its prophetic teaching for us. In the preceding
verse we read how Jesus went into the temple, and “looked round
about upon all things,” and went out to Bethany. In the morning He
destroyed this tree on His way to the cleansing of the Temple; after
which (verse 17) He taught them, saying, “Is it not written, My house
shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations? but ye have made
it a den of robbers” (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ). The
fruit of such a tree was for all who passed by (Deu. 23:24): but it did
not answer its end, and it was destroyed. In like manner that House,
which through the greed of man had failed to fulfil its purpose, Would
be destroyed as that fig-tree had been.

The verse then reads thus: “And seeing a fig-tree afar off, having
leaves, he went if consequently anything [/.e., any ὄλυνθοι (olunthoi),
dried figs] he should find on it: for it was not the time of figs (σῦκα,
suka): and oncoming up to it, nothing found he save leaves.” The
explanatory clause (though it belongs to the former clause, as here
rendered) is put last to complete the structure which is as follows:-

Structure of the passage (Mar. 11:13).

Α And seeing a fig-tree afar off

В shaving leaves,
С а hecame,
Ь _ if haply he might find anything thereon:
С а andwhen he came to it,
Ь — пе found nothing
В but leaves only,
A {οι it was not the proper season of figs.
The subjects correspond thus:-
Α Fig-tree.
B Leaves.
С а _ Coming.
Ь Finding.
С а Coming.
Ь Finding.
В Leaves.
А Figs.
Joh. 8:6.-Неге the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] has given an addition which pertains
rather to the expositor than to the Translator:
“But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground
as though he heard them not.”
It is impossible to know all the motives of the Lord Jesus in this
act; but, judging from Eastern habits of to-day, there was a silent
contempt and an impressive rebuke implied in this inattention to their
insincere charge.

Rom. 1:7 and 1Co. 1:2 -“Called to be saints,”.
Rom. 1:1, and 1Co. 1:1.-“Called {ο be an apostle.”

It is a question whether there is any ellipsis here, or whether it is
correctly supplied. The Greek is κλητοῖς ἁγίοις (kleetois hagiois). But
we have these same words in the Septuagint translation of Lev. 23:2,
which throws light upon the expression. “Speak unto the children of
Israel, and say unto them, Concerning the feasts of the Lord, which ye
shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my feasts.” The
ΙΧΧ. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] translates the
words “holy convocations,” κλητὰς ἁγίας (kleetas hagias), i.e.,
assemblies by special calling as holy to the Lord. Hence, in the New
Testament expressions the meaning is the same, i.e., saints by the
calling of God, or by Divine calling: viz., those who have been Divinely
selected and appointed as saints. So also of an apostle it denotes one
who has by a special calling of God been made an apostle. In other
words, “by Divine calling, saints;” or “by Divine calling, an apostle.”
Rom. 12:3.-“For | say, through the grace given unto me, to every man
that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to
think.”
It is a question here, whether the thinking ought to be limited by
the insertion of the words “of himself,” as there is no limitation in the
Greek. The verb ὑπερφρονέω (hyperphroneé) occurs only in this
passage, and it means {ο think more than one ought, not merely of
one’s self, but of anything. It denotes especially a highmindedness
about any subject, which makes one proud, arrogant, boastful or
insolent. Indeed, there is in this verse another figure, or peculiar form
of words, called Paregmenon (q.v. [Νοίε: Which see.] ), where several
words of a common origin are used in the same sentence. This figure
is used for the purpose of calling our attention to the statement so as
to emphasize it. The words can be only inadequately expressed in
translation: “For | say, through the grace given unto me, to every man
that is among you, not to THINK-more-highly (ὑπερφονεῖν
hyperphronein) than he ought to THINK (φρονεῖν phronein), but to
THINK (φρονεῖν, phronein) so as to THINK-soberly (σωφρονεῖν
sdéphronein), according as to each one [of you] God hath distributed
[his] measure of faith.”

The verses which follow show that God has dealt out spiritual gifts
in different measures (verse 6), and that he who has a larger measure
than another is not on that account to be proud, or to think on any
subject beyond his own measure of faith.
2Co. 6:1.-“We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also,
&с.”

The insertion of the words, “with him,” here, and in the R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] also, gives a totally false view of our
position as workers. The sense is quite complete without any addition
whatever. We are not fellow-workers with God, but with our brethren;
with you, not with him, should be the words supplied, if any. The verse
reads: “But working together (or as fellow-workers with you), we
exhort also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain.”

Gal. 3:24.-“The law was our schoolmaster {ο bring us unto Christ.”

Here there is no need to introduce the words, “to bring us,” the
sense being complete without them: εἰς (e/s), unto, is used in its well-
known sense of up fo, or until. See Php. 1:10, “That ye may be sincere
and without offence till the day of Christ.” Eph. 1:14, “Which is the
earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased
possession.”

That is to say, until Christ came and brought justification by free,
pure, and true grace, the Law, like a tutor, kept them under restraint;
and is here in entire contrast to that liberty wherewith Christ hath
made His people free (see chap. 5:1, and Joh. 8:36. Rom. 8:2).

Gal. 3:20.-“Now a mediator is not a mediator of one; but God is one.”
Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
both repeat the noun mediator, which only introduces confusion. The
sense is clear without it.

“Now a mediator is not of one [party]:” i.e., there must be two
parties where there is a mediator; for he is a person who stands
between the two others. Now when God gave the promise to Abram
(Gen. 15:9-21), there was only one party; for God caused Abram to
fall into a deep sleep, and He Himself “was one”-the One who, alone,
was thus the one party to this glorious covenant; which is therefore
unconditional, and must stand for ever.

Heb. 2:16.-“For verily he took not on him the nature of angels.”

The Greek is, “For verily he taketh not hold of angels, but of the
seed of Abraham he taketh hold,” i.e., to redeem them, hence he had
to partake of the nature of Abraham’s seed; but this is in verse 17, not
16.
Heb. 4:15.-“But was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without
sin,” i.e., “but was tried according to all things, according to our
likeness, apart from sin.”

Heb. 12:2.-“Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith.”
There is no Ellipsis here, but both the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] have supplied the word “our,” which
introduces quite a different thought into the passage.

It is evident that it is not our faith, but faith itself.

In the preceding chapter we have many examples of faith. Each
one exhibits some particular aspect of faith in its perfection. For
example; in Abel, we have the most perfect example of faith in
connection with worship: in Enoch the most perfect example of faith’s
walk: while in Noah, we have the most perfect example of faith’s
witness, and so on through the chapter; the historical order
corresponding with the theological and experimental order. Each is
like a portrait in which some particular feature is perfect: while the
chapter concludes with two groups of portraits; the one illustrating
faith’s power to conquer (verses 32-35), and the other illustrating
faith’s power to suffer (verses 36-38). Then chap. xii. continues,
“Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a
cloud of witnesses* [Note: |.e., those who gave testimony or evidence
by their words, their life or death. There is no idea of eye-witnesses in
this word, as though they were beholding or looking upon us. The
witnesses referred to are the examples of faith cited in chap. 11.] let
us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us,
and let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking ({6.,
ἀφορῶντες, aphoréntes, looking away from) unto.”

Unlike these examples, which each had only one aspect of faith in
perfection, Jesus had every aspect perfect. His was a portrait in which
every feature was perfect, for He is the Beginner and Ender of faith.
He leads the van and brings up the rear; He is the Sum and the
Substance of faith. It is not “οι” faith of which Jesus is here the
Author and Finisher, but faith itself. The Greek goes on to say, “looking
off unto the author and finisher of faith-Jesus.”

Looking off from all these human examples, each of which after all
exhibited only one feature of faith, unto Him who is the perfect Princet
[Note: The word translated “author” is a?????? (archeegos) really an
adjective, leading, furnishing the first cause; then it means a leader,
but it is more a chief leader; hence it is sometimes rendered Prince.
Originator, beginner, and author are all parts of its meaning. It occurs
only in Act. 3:15, “killed the Prince of life,” i.e., the author and giver of
life; Act. 5:31, “exalted to be a Prince and a Saviour’; Heb. 2:10, “to
make the Captain of their salvation perfect,” i.e. the author of their
salvation. Hence, princely-leader is a meaning which embraces all the
others.] and Leader of all faithful ones and the Author of faith itself-
even Jesus, “who for the joy that was set before him endured the
cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the
throne of God.”

1Jn. 3:16.-“Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid
down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the
brethren.”
This passage read without the italics is perfectly clear and
beautiful:-“Hereby perceive we love,” i.e., what love really is! or
“Hereby have we got to know love” (perfect tense). For it was never
known what love was, until HE-Jesus-laid down His life for us. The
only Ellipsis here is in the definition of the subject “he.” It is ἐκεῖνος
(ekeinos), that one, that blessed One, the Lord Jesus. All the more
emphatic from its being presupposed that He is so wonderful that
there can be no possible doubt as to His identity. Just as in 2Ti. 1:12 :
“For | know whom (he does not say, in whom) | have believed, and |
am persuaded that he is able to keep that (he does not say what)
which He has committed unto me against that day” (R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] margin), (he does not say what day)! That
which God had committed unto Paul was “that goodly deposit”-the
revelation of the mystery concerning the Body of Christ. The word
παραθήκη (paratheeke) occurs only here (verse 14) and 1Ti. 6:20
(according to the best texts). It was committed to Timothy also, and he
was to guard it by the Holy Spirit dwelling within him. And though all
might turn away from him and his teaching concerning it (verse 15),
yet God would guard it and care for it, and preserve it against that day.
2Pe. 1:20-21.-“Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the Scripture is
of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time
(marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] , at any time) by the will of man: but holy
men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.”

Here, there is no Ellipsis. The words “as they were moved” merely
represent the participle “being moved,” as in the R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.]

The confessed difficulty of this passage arises partly from the
peculiar words employed. (1) The noun translated “interpretation”
(ἐπήλυσις, epilusis) occurs nowhere else in the whole Bible, and only
once or twice in secular Greek writings. Even the verb (ἐπιλύω, epilud)
occurs only twice, viz., Mar. 4:34, “He expounded all things to his
disciples,” and Act. 19:39, “It shall be determined in a lawful
assembly,” {Θ., made known in such an assembly. The verb means to
untie, unloose, and hence to unfold or disclose. This is its meaning in
the only place where it occurs in the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint
Version (325 b.c.).] , Gen. 41:12, of Joseph interpreting the dreams of
Pharaoh's servants. Here it is used as the translation of the Heb.
Φμμι (pathar), to open, unfold, or disclose. Hence, the noun can
mean only an unfolding, or disclosure: just as when one Unties a
parcel or bundle, and discloses what is contained within it.

(2) The word “private” is the translation of the word ἴδιος (idios),
which occurs 113 times. It is never translated “private,” except here.
Seventy-seven times it is rendered “his own” (e.g., “his own servants,”
Mat. 25:14; “his own country,” Joh. 4:44; “his own name,” Joh. 5:43;
“his own sheep,” Joh. 10:3-4, etc.).

Then the verb “is” is not the equivalent for the verb “to be,” but it is
quite a different ναΓρ-(γίνοµαι, ginomai), which means to begin to be,
come into existence, to originate, arise, become, come to pass, etc.

Now, putting these facts together and observing the order of the
words in the original, we read the passage thus:-

“Knowing this first, that all prophecy of Scripture came (or
originated) not of his or its own [i.e., the prophet’s own] unfolding (or
Sending forth); for not by the will of man was prophecy at any time
brought in, but borne along by the Holy Spirit spake the holy men of
God.”
Or keeping to the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] as far as possible:-“Knowing this first,
that no prophecy of the Scripture came of [the prophet’s, or of its own]
unfolding; for prophecy came not in old time by the will of man; but the
holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.”

Or taking the last clause as in the R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] , “But holy men spake from God, [not from
themselves], moved by the Holy Ghost.”

The whole scope of this passage is, not the interpretation of
Scripture, but its origin: it does not speak of what the Scripture means,
but of whence it comes.

Zeugma: or, Unequal Yoke
Zeug’-ma. Greek ζεῦγμα, a yoke; from ζεύγνυµι (zeugnumi), to join or
yoke together.

This name is given to the figure, because one verb is yoked on to
two subjects while grammatically it strictly refers only to one of them:
The two subjects properly require two different verbs. This figure,
therefore, differs from one of the ordinary forms of Ellipsis, where one
of the two verbs is omitted which belongs to only one clause. (See
under Relative Ellipsis, page 62.)

The second verb is omitted, and the grammatical law is broken, in
order that our attention may be attracted to the passage, and that we
may thus discover that the emphasis is to be placed on the verb that is
used, and not be distracted from it by the verb that is omitted. Though
the law of grammar is violated, it is not “bad grammar’; for it is broken
with design, legitimately broken, under the special form, usage, or
figure, called ZEUGMA.

So perfectly was this figure studied and used by the Greeks, that
they gave different names to its various forms, according to the
position of the verb or yoke in the sentence. There are four forms of
Zeugma:-

1. PROTOZEUGMA, ante-yoke. Latin, INJUNCTUM, joined

together.

2. MESOZEUGMA, middle-yoke. Latin, CONJUNCTUM, joined

with.
3. HYPOZEUGMA, end-yoke; or subjoined.
4. SYNEZEUGMENON, connected-yoke. Latin, ADJUNCTUM,
joined together.
1. Protozeugma: or, Ante-Yoke

Pro’-to-zeug’-ma, from πρώτον (pré™-ton), the first, or the beginning,
and Zeugma: meaning yoked at the beginning; because the verb,
which is thus unequally yoked, is placed at the beginning of the
sentence. Hence, it was called also ANTEZEUGMENON, i.e., yoked
before (from the Latin, ante, before), or ante-yoked. Another name
was PROEPIZEUXIS (prod-ep-i-zeux’-is), yoked upon before (from
πτρό (pro), before, and ἐπί (epi), upon).

The Latins called it INJUNCTUM, i.e., joined, or yoked to, from in,
and jugum, a yoke (from jungo, to join).

Gen. 4:20.-“And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell
in tents and cattle.”

Here the verb “dwell” is placed before “tents” and “cattle,” with both
of which it is yoked, though it is accurately appropriate only to “tents,”
and not to “cattle.” The verb “possess” would be more suitable for
cattle. And this is why the figure is a kind of Ellipsis, for the verse if
completed would read, “he was the father of such as dwell in tents[and
possess] cattle.” But how stilted and tame compared with the figure
which bids us throw the emphasis on the fact that he was a nomade
(vO, 8 wanderer or nomade), and cared more for wandering about
than for the shepherd part of his life!

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] has supplied the verb in italics:-“[such as have]
cattle,” as though it were a case of ordinary Ellipsis. The R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] supplies the second verb “have.”
It may be, however, that the sense is better completed by taking
the words η η ОЧрд (vahaley michneh), tents of cattle, as in
2Ch. 14:14, /е., cattle-tents, i.e., herdsmen. Or, as in Gen. 46:32;
Gen. 46:34, by supplying the Ellipsis:-“Such as dwell in tents and [men
ой cattle,” {.6., herdsmen. So that the sense would be much the same.
Exo. 3:16.-“I have surely visited you, and that which is done to you in
Egypt.” We are thus reminded that it was not merely that Jehovah had
seen that which they had suffered, but rather had visited because of
His covenant with their fathers.

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
both supply the second verb: “[seen] that which is done to you, etc.”

It may be that the verb cour (pachad), though used only once,
should be repeated (by implication) in another sense, which it has,
viz.: “| have surely visited (i.e., looked after or cared for) you, and
[visited] (i.e., punished for) that which is done to you in Egypt).” The
two senses being to go {ο with the view of helping; and to go for or
against with the view of punishing, which would be the figure of
Syllepsis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
Deu. 4:12.-“And the Lord spake unto you out of the midst of the fire:
ye heard the voice of words, but saw no similitude, only a voice.”

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] supply the
second verb “[heard] only a voice.” The figure shows us that all the
emphasis is to be placed on the fact that no similitude was seen; thus
idolatry was specially condemned.

The word “idol” means, literally, something that is seen, and thus
all worship that involves the use of sight, and indeed, of any of the
senses (hence called sensuous worship), rather than the heart,
partakes of the nature of idolatry, and is abomination in the sight of
God.
2Ki. 11:12.-“And he brought forth the king’s son, and put the crown
upon him, and the testimony.” (2Ch. 23:11).

Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
supply the second verb, “gave him the testimony.” If it were a simple
Ellipsis, we might instead supply in his hand after the word
“testimony.” But it is rather the figure of Zeugma, by which our
attention is called to the importance of the “testimony” under such
circumstances (see Deu. 17:19) rather than to the mere act of the
giving it.

Isa. 2:3.-“Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to
the house of the God of Jacob,” i.e., [and let us enter into] the house
of the God of Jacob.

Luk. 24:27.-“And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he
expounded unto them in all the Scriptures the things concerning
himself.”

Here the verb “beginning” suits, of course, only “Moses”; and some
such verb as going through would be more appropriate; as he could
not begin at all the “prophets.”

This figure tells us that it is not the act which we are to think of, but
the books and the Scripture that we are to emphasize as being the
subject of the Risen Lord’s exposition.
1Co. 3:2.-“l have fed you with milk, and not with meat.”
Here the verb is ποτζω, to give drink, and it suits the subject,
“milk,” but not “meat.” Hence the emphasis is not so much on the
feeding as on the food, and on the contrast between the “milk” and the
“meat.” The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] avoids the figure by giving the verb a neutral
meaning. See how tame the passage would have been had it read: “I
have given you milk to drink and not meat to eat”! All the fire and force
and emphasis would have been lost, and we might have mistakenly
put the emphasis on the verbs instead of on the subjects: while the
figure would have been a Pleonasm (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) instead
of a Zeugma.
1Со. 7:10.- “And unto the married | command, yet not I, but the Lord.”

Here the one verb is connected with the two objects: but we are,
by this figure, shown that it is connected affirmatively with the Lord,
and only negatively with the apostle.
1Co. 14:34.- ο: it is not permitted them to speak; but to be under
authority.”

This has been treated as a simple Ellipsis: but the unequal yoke
(Zeugma) is seen, the one verb being used for the two opposite
things; thus emphasizing the fact that it is not so much the permitting,
or the commanding, which is important, but the act of speaking, and
the condition of being under authority.
1Ti. 4:3.-“Forbidding to marry and to abstain from meats.”

This has been classed already under Ellipsis; but the Zeugma is
also seen; emphasizing the fact that it is celibacy and abstinence
which are to be noted as the marks of the latter times rather than the
mere acts of “forbidding” or commanding. The latter verb, which is
omitted, is supplied by Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which see] ),
“forbidding (κωλυόντων, kéluontén), to marry, and [commanding
(κελευόντων, keleuontén)], etc.”

2. Mesozeugma; or, Middle-Yoke
Mes’-o-zeug-ma, i.e., middle-yoke, from µέσος (mesos), middle. The
Zeugma is so-called when the verb or adjective occurs in the middle of
the sentence.

The Latins called it CONJUNCTUM, joined-together-with.

Mar. 13:26.-“Then shall they see the Son of Man coming in the clouds
with great power and glory.”

Here in the Greek the adjective is put between the two nouns,
thus: “Power, great, and glory,” and it applies to both in a peculiar
manner. This Zeugma calls our attention to the fact that the power will
be great and the glory will be great: and this more effectually
emphasizes the greatness of both, than if it had been stated in so
many words.

So also 5:40, “The father of the child and the mother”; (verse 42)
“Arose the damsel and walked.”

Luk. 1:64.-“And his mouth was opened immediately and his tongue,
and he spake and praised God.”

Here it is not the act of the opening and loosing that we are to
think of, but the fact that through this predicted miracle he praised God
with his mouth and his tongue in spite of all the months of his enforced
silence.

3. Hypozeugma; or, End-Yoke
Hy’-po-zeug ‘ma, i.e., end-yoke, from Отто (hupo or hypo), underneath.
Hence ὑποζεύγνυμι (hypozeugnumi), to yoke under. The figure of
Zeugma is so called when the verb is at the end of the sentence, and
so underneath, the two objects.
Act. 4:27-28.-“They were gathered together, to do whatsoever thy
hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.”
Here the verb “determined” relates only to “counsel” and not to
“hand”: and shows us that we are to place the emphasis on the fact
that, though the power of God’s hand was felt sooner than His counsel
(as Bengel puts it), yet even this was only in consequence of His own
determinate counsel and foreknowledge. Compare chap. 2:23, and
3:18.

4. Synezeugmenon; or, Joint-Yoke
Syn’-e-zeug’-men-on, i.e., yoked together with, or yoked connectedly,
from σύν (sun or syn), together with, and ζεύγνυμµι, to yoke.

This name is given to the Zeugma when the verb is joined to more
than two clauses, each of which would require its own proper verb in
order to complete the sense.* [Note: On the other hand, when in a
succession of clauses each subject has its own proper verb,
expressed instead of being understood, then it is called HYPOZEUXIS
(Hy’-po-zeux’-is), i.e., sub-connection with. See Psa. 145:5-7. 1Co.
13:8. Where several members, which at first form one sentence, are
unyoked and separated into two or more clauses, the figure is called
DIEZEUGMENON, Di’-e-zeug’-men-on, i.e., yoked-through, from 222
(dia), through. This was called by the Latins DISJUNCTIO. See under
Prosapodosis.] By the Latins it was called ADJUNCTUM, i.e., joined
together.
Exo. 20:18.-“And all the people saw the thunderings, and the
lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking.”
How tame this would be if the proper verbs had been expressed in
each case! The verb “saw” is appropriate to the “lightnings” and
“mountain.” And by the omission of the second verb “heard” we are
informed that the people were impressed by what they saw, rather
than by what they heard.
Psa. 15:1-5 -Here the whole of the objects in verses 2-5 are
connected with one verb which occurs in the last verse (repeated from
first verse). All the sentences in verses 2-5 are incomplete. There is
the Ellipsis of the verb, e.g., verse 2: “He that walketh uprightly [shall
abide in thy tabernacle and shall never be moved], he that worketh
righteousness [shall never be moved],” etc.
This gives rise to, or is the consequence of the structure of the
Psalm:-
Α 1. Who shall abide? (stability).
qualities.
В а 2. Positive
Ь 3. Negative
В а 4-Positive
Ь — -4-5- Negative
Α -5. Who shall abide? (stability).

Eph. 4:31.-“Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and
evil speaking, be put away from you.”

Here the one verb “put away,” αἴρω (air6), is used of all these
various subjects, though it does not apply equally to each: e.g.,
“bitterness,” πικρία (pikria), the opposite of “kindness,” verse 32;
“wrath,” θυμός (thumos), harshness, the opposite of “tender-hearted,”
verse 32; “anger,” ὀργή (orgee), the opposite of “forgiving,” verse 32;
“clamour,” κραυγή (kraugee), “evil-speaking,” βλασφημία
(blasphemia), “malice,” κακία (kakia), wickedness.

It is the thing we are not to be, that is important, rather than the act
of giving it up. (See the same passage under Polysyndeton).

Php. 3:10.-“That | may know him, and the power of his resurrection,
and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his
death.”
Here the one verb “know” properly refers to “Him.” The verbs
suited to the other subjects are not expressed, in order that we may
not be diverted by other action from the one great fact of our
knowledge of Him. “That | may know Him (is the one great object, but
to know Him | must experience) the power of His resurrection, and (to
feel this | must first share) the fellowship of His sufferings (How? by)
being made like Him in His death,” i.e., by reckoning myself as having
died with Christ (Rom. 6:11), and been planted together in the likeness
of His death (verse 5). So only can | know the power of that new
resurrection life which | have as “risen with Christ,” enabling me to
“walk in newness of life,” and thus to “know Him.”

The order of thought is introverted in verses 10 and 11.

Resurrection.
Suffering.
Death.

Resurrection.

And resurrection, though mentioned first, cannot be known until
fellowship with His sufferings and conformity to His death have been
experienced by faith. Then the power of His resurrection which it
exercises on the new life can be known; and we can know Him only in
what God has made Christ to be to His people, and what He has
made His people to be in Christ.
Asyndeton; or, No-Ands

This figure should not be studied apart from the opposite figure
POLYSYNDETON (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), as they form a pair, and
mutually throw light upon and illustrate each other.

It is pronounced a-syn-de-ton, and means simply without
conjunctions; or it may be Englished by the term NO-ANDS.

It is from the Greek a, negative, and σύνδετον (sundeton), bound
together with (from δεῖν, dein, to bind).

Hence, in grammar, asyndeton means without any conjunctions.

It is called also ASYNTHETON, from τίθηµ! (titheemi), to put or
place. Hence, Asyntheton means no placings or puttings (i.e., of the
conjunction “and”).
Other names for this figure are:-
DIALYSIS (Di-al’-y-sis), from διά (dia), through, and λύειν
(luein), to loosen; a loosening through.
DIALYTON (Di-al’-y-ton), a separation of the parts.
SOLUTUM (So-lu-tum), from the Latin solvo, to dissolve.
DISSOLUTIO (Dis-so-lu’-ti-o), a dissolving.
EPITROCHASMOS (Ep --i-tro-chas‘-mos), from ἐτή (epi), upon,
and τροχαῖος (trochaios), a running along, tripping along.
This name is given also to a certain kind of Parenthesis
(q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
PERCURSIO (Per-cur’-si-o), a running through.
All these names are given, because, without any “ands” the items
are soon run over.
When the figure Asyndeton is used, we are not detained over the
separate statements, and asked to consider each in detail, but we are
hurried on over the various matters that are mentioned, as though
they were of no account, in comparison with the great climax to which
they lead up, and which alone we are thus asked by this figure to
emphasize.

The beauties of Asyndeton cannot be fully seen or appreciated
without comparing with it the figure of Polysyndeton. They should be
studied together, in order to bring out, by the wonderful contrast, the
object and importance of both.

Asyndeta have been divided into four classes:-

Conjunctive or copulative, when the words or propositions are
to be joined together.

Disjunctive, when they are to be separated from each other.

Explanatory, when they explain each other.

Causal, when a reason is subjoined.

For the sake of more easy reference, the following examples have
not been thus classified, but are given in the order in which they occur
in the Bible:
Exo. 15:9-10.-“The enemy said,

-| will pursue,

-| will overtake,

-| will divide the spoil;

-My lust shall be satisfied upon them;

-| will draw my sword,

-My hand shall destroy them.

-Thou didst blow with thy wind,

-The sea covered them:

They sank as lead in the mighty waters.”

Here we are hurried over what “the enemy said,” because it was
not of the least importance what he said or what he did. The great fact
is recorded in the climax: on which all the emphasis is to be placed
both in thought and in public reading.

Jdg. 5:27.-“At her feet he bowed,
-he fell,

-he lay down;

-at her feet he bowed,

-he fell:

-where he bowed,

there he fell down dead.”
1Sa. 15:6.-“And Saul said unto the Kenites,
-Go,
-depart,
-get you down from among the Amalekites,
-lest | destroy you with them.”
Isa. 33:7-12.-Here the figure is used to hasten us on through the
details which describe the judgment on Assyria, in order that we may
dwell on the important fact that the hour of Judah’s deliverance has
come:-
“Behold, their valiant ones shall cry without;
-the ambassadors of peace shall weep bitterly:
-the highways lie waste,
-the wayfaring man ceaseth:
-he hath broken the covenant,
-he hath despised the cities,
-he regardeth no man:
-the earth mourneth (the “and” here (in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) is incorrectly
inserted),
-languisheth:
-Lebanon is ashamed,
-hewn down (here again the “and” is introduced and mars the figure).
-Sharon is like a wilderness;
-And Bashan and Carmel shake [their leaves] (or, are all astir).
“Now will | arise, saith the Lord:
-now will | be exalted;
-now will | lift up myself.
“Ye shall conceive chaff (Ημ, dried grass, or tinder).
-Ye shall bring forth stubble;
-your breath as fire shall devour you.
-And the people shall be as the burnings of lime;
-As thorns cut up shall they be burned in the fire.”
Eze. 33:15-16.-“If the wicked restore the pledge,
-give again that he had robbed,
-walk in the statutes of life, without committing iniquity;
-he shall surely live
-he shall not die.”* [Note: Here, in the climax, we have the figure of
Pleonasm (q.v.).]
-“None of his sins that he hath committed shall be mentioned unto
him:
-he hath done that which is lawful and right;
-he shall surely live.”
Mar. 2:27-28.-In the Textus Receptus the “and” is omitted, but it is
inserted both in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] with T. [Note: . Tischendorf and his critical Greek Text.] Tr.
[Note: r. Tregelles and his critical Greek Text.] A. [Note: . Alford and
his critical Greek Text.] , WH. [Note: H. Westcott and Hort, and their
critical Greek Text.]

It reads, in spite of this, as though the “and” were an addition to
the text. Without it there is an Asyndeton, and a forcible conclusion
flowing from it.

“The Sabbath was made for man,

-not man for the Sabbath;

therefore the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath also.” [Note: A.V.,
wrongly, “Lord also.” R.V., “even of the Sabbath.” See “Also,” a Bible
Study on the Use of the Word by the same author and publisher.]

Mar. 7:21-23.-“For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed

evil thoughts,

-adulteries,

-fornications,

-murders,

-thefts,

-covetousness,

-wickedness,
-deceit,

-lasciviousness,

-an evil eye,

-blasphemy,

-pride,

-foolishness:

-all these evil things come from within, and defile the man.”
This weighty truth, thus emphasized, writes folly on all modern
attempts to improve human nature; because they all proceed on the
false assumption that it is what goes into the man that defiles him, and
ignore the solemn fact that in the natural heart there is “no good thing”
(Rom. 7:18). Until, therefore, a new heart has been given by God, all
attempts to make black white will be labour in vain. Compare Mat.
15:18-20.

Luk. 17:27-30.-“They did eat,
-they drank,
-they married wives,
-they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the
ark,
and the Flood came, and destroyed them all.
“Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat,
-they drank,
-they bought,
-they sold,
-they planted,
-they builded; but the same day that Lot went out of Sodom
it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all.
Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed.”
Rom. 1:29-31.-A long list is given of the marks of the “reprobate
mind,” and We are taken through the awful catalogue, and hastened
on to the climax in verse 32, that the righteous sentence of God has
been passed, and only judgment now awaits them that “not only do
the same, but have pleasure” in them that do them.

1Co. 3:12-13.-“Now if any man build upon this foundation gold,

-silver,

-precious stones,

-wood,

-hay,

-stubble;

every man’s work shall be made manifest; for the day shall
declare it,” etc.

Here it is the consequence which is emphasized by the climax
thus led up to. The builder here is the minister, and the work is
ministerial.

Those who have been reformed or apparently converted by human
persuasion or other influences working and acting on the flesh, are
like “wood, hay, stubble;” and will be burnt up in that day; for, as the
Lord Jesus declared (using the work of a husbandman as the
illustration, instead of, as here, the work of the builder), “every plant
which my heavenly Father hath not planted shall be rooted up” (Mat.
15:13).

But those who have been converted by God (and not merely as
the popular phrase goes “to God”) shall be as “gold, silver, precious
stones,” for whom the fire shall have “no hurt.”
1Co. 12:28-31.-“And God hath set some in the church,

-first apostles,

-secondarily prophets,
-thirdly teachers,

-after that miracles,

-then gifts of healings,
-helps,

-governments,

-diversities of tongues.

Are all apostles?

-are all prophets?

-are all teachers?

-are all workers of miracles?
-Have all the gifts of healing?
-Do all speak with tongues?
-Do all interpret?

But covet earnestly the best gifts: and yet show | unto you a
more excellent way.”

Here we have part of the revelation concerning the Mystical body
of Christ.

It commences at verse 1:-

А 12:1-11. Nine gifts which God has given to His Church.

В 12-17. The unity of the Body. Nine enumerations.
B 18-27. What God hath set in the Body. Eight
enumerations.

А 28-31. What God hath set in the Church. Eight gifts.

Thus in A and A we have the Church. And in B and B we have the
Body. In A and A we have seventeen* [Note: For the significance of
this number, see Number in Scripture, by the same author and
publisher. Also The Mystery.] enumerations, and in B and B we have
seventeen also. These arrangements bind all four together in a
remarkable way to show that “the Body is one.”
1Co. 13:13.-“And now abideth faith,

-hope,
-charity,
these three,” etc.
2Co. 7:5-6.-“For, when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had
no rest, but

-we were troubled on every side;

-without were fightings,

-within were fears.

Nevertheless God, that comforteth those that are cast down,
comforted us by the coming of Titus.”

Gal. 5:19-21.-“Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are
these,

Adultery,

-fornication,

-uncleanness,

-lasciviousness,

-idolatry,

-witchcraft,

-hatred,

-variance,

-emulations,

-wrath,

-strife,

-seditions,

-heresies,

-envyings,
-murders,
-drunkenness,
-revellings, and such like: of the which | tell you before, as | have also
told you in time past,
that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of
God.”
See also under Merismus and Synonymia.
Gal. 5:22.-“But the fruit of the Spirit is love,
0У,
-реасе,
-longsuffering,
-gentleness,
-goodness,
-faith,
-meekness,
-temperance:
against such there is no law.”
Contrast this with the Polysyndeton in 2Pe. 1:5-7.
Eph. 4:32.-Contrast this with the Polysyndeton in verse 31.
“And be ye kind one to another,
-tenderhearted,
-forgiving one another,
even as God for Christ’s sake hath forgiven you.” (Lit. “like as
GOD also”).
Php. 3:5-7.-“Though | might also have confidence in the flesh
(Greek:-‘Though | might have confidence IN THE FLESH also’). If any
other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might boast in the flesh, |
more:

“Circumcised the eighth day,
-of the stock of Israel,
-of the tribe of Benjamin,
-an Hebrew of the Hebrews;
-as touching the Law, a Pharisee;
-concerning zeal, persecuting the Church;
-touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless.
But what things were gain to me, those | counted loss for Christ.”

Paul is speaking not of his sins, but of his gains. As to his standing
in the flesh we hear his words, “I more,” so we need not strive to gain
it. As to his guilt as a sinner we hear his words, “I am chief,” so we
need not despair. For God has set him forth as a pattern showing how
all sinners must be converted (1Ti. 1:16).
1Th. 5:14-18.-“Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are
unruly,
-comfort the feeble minded,
-support the weak,
-be patient toward all men.
-See that none render evil for evil unto any man; but
-ever follow that which is good both among yourselves and to all men.
-Rejoice evermore.
-Pray without ceasing.
-In every thing give thanks:
for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.”
1Ti. 1:17.-“Now unto the King
eternal,
-immortal,
-invisible,
-the only wise God,
be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.”
1Ti. 4:13-16.-‘Till | come,
give attendance to reading,
-to exhortation,
-to doctrine.
-Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy,
with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.

-Meditate upon these things;

-give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all.

-Take heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine;

-continue in them:

for in doing this thou shalt save both thyself, and them that hear
thee.”

2Ti. 3:1-5.-“This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall
come.For men shall be lovers of their own selves,

-covetous,

-boasters,

-proud,

-blasphemers,

-disobedient to parents,

-unthankful,

-unholy,

-without natural affection,

-trucebreakers,

-false accusers,

-incontinent,

-fierce,
-despisers of those that are good,

-traitors,

-heady,

-highminded,

-lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God;
from such turn away.”

2Ti. 3:10-11.-“But thou hast fully known my doctrine,
-manner of life,

-purpose,

-faith,

-longsuffering,

-charity,

-patience,

-persecutions,

-afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch,
-at Iconium,

-at Lystra: what persecutions | endured;
but out of them all the Lord delivered те.”* [Note: Compare and
contrast with this the Polysyndeton of 2Ti. 4:17-18.]

As much as to say, “It does not matter what my troubles may have
been: the great and blessed fact is that out of them all the Lord hath
delivered me.”
2Ti. 3:16-17.-“All Scripture is given by inspiration of God,t [Note: See
under the figure of Ellipsis, page 44.] and is profitable
-for doctrine,

-for reproof,

-for correction,

-for instruction in righteousness:

that the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all
good works.”

Here we are hurried on, and not asked to stop and consider each
of the four things for which all Scripture is profitable: but we are asked
especially to dwell on the object of it: viz., thoroughly to furnish the
man of God for all the circumstances in which he may be placed.
The words “perfect” and “throughly furnished” are cognate in the
Greek, and should be similarly гепдегед.+ [Note: See under the figure
of Paregmenon.] If the former ἄρτιος (artios) is rendered “perfect,” the
latter ἐξηρτισμένος (exeertismenos) should be “perfected” (as in the
margin). If the former is translated fitted, the latter should be fitted out-
and-out. If the latter is rendered “furnished completely,” then the
former should be furnished. Perhaps the best rendering would be
“fitted” ... “fitted out,” i.e., “that the man of God may be fitted, fitted out
unto all good works.”

The adjective ἄρτιος (artios) is from the Ancient Aryan root AR,
which means to fit. In the Greek it implies perfect adaptation and
suitability. The Greeks used it of time, as denoting the exact or right
moment; and of numbers as denoting a perfect or even number as
opposed to an odd number.

The verb ἑξαρήζω (exartizo) means {ο fit out; and is used of
furnishing a house, making full preparation for war, or especially of
fitting out a vessel for sea, in doing which every emergency must be
provided for-heat and cold, calm and storm, peace and war, fire and
accident. Hence, he who studies God's word, will be a “man of God,”
fitted out and provided for all the circumstances and emergencies of
life. But he who neglects this, and studies man’s books, will become at
best a man of men; he will be only what man’s wisdom can make him,
a prey for every enemy, exposed to every danger.* [Note: See The
Man of God, a pamphlet by the same author and publisher.]

The adjective ἄρτιος occurs only here: and the verb ἑξαρτίζω only
here, and in Act. 21:5. The importance of this passage is shown by the
perfection of its structure:-

A а All Scripture is given by inspiration of God;

Ь — апа 5 profitable
В _ for doctrine,
©С for reproof,
С for correction,
В {οι instruction in righteousness:

А а that the man of God may be perfect;

Ь — throughly furnished unto all good works.

Here in A and A we have that which is connected with “Goa”; while
in B, C and B, C, we have that which is connected with His “Word.”
Thus:-

A а God's divinely inspired word.

b — № profit to God’s man.
В Positive: Teaching what is true.
с Negative: Convicting of what is wrong in
practice.
©С Negative: Correcting what is wrong in doctrine.
В Positive: Instructing in what is right.
А а God's divinely-fitted man.
b_ His profit in God’s word.
There is a further reference to this verse (2Ti. 3:16) in verses 2
and 3 of the next chapter, which may be compared thus:-
The God-breathed Word is profitable
2Ti. 3:16.
2Ti. 4:2-3.
for doctrine:
therefore
Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season;
for reproof:

therefore

reprove,

for correction:

therefore

rebuke,

for instruction in righteousness:

therefore

exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.
Thus we have the same figure in both of these corresponding
members:
2Ti. 4:2-3.-“Preach the word;
-be instant in season, out of season;
-reprove,
-rebuke,
-exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.
For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine.”
This important conclusion is pressed upon us and thus
emphasized in order to show us that, when men “will not endure
sound doctrine,” we are not to search for something to preach that
they will endure, but all the more earnestly and persistently we are to
“preach the word!” Nothing else is given us to preach, whether men
will hear or whether they will forbear.
Jam. 1:19-20.-“Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man
(ἄνθρωπος, anthrépos) be
swift to hear,
-slow to speak,
-slow to wrath:
for the wrath of man (ἀνδρός, andros) worketh not the
righteousness of God.”
Jam. 5:6.-Here the translators have inserted “and” twice in italics,
utterly destroying the figure and hiding the conclusion.
“Ye have condemned,
-ye have killed the just [One];
-He doth not resist you.
Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord.”
Rev. 3:7-8.-“These things saith
He that is holy,
-he that is true,
-he that hath the key of David,
-he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth, and no man
openeth;
| know thy works.”
Contrast the Polysyndeton in verses 8, 12, 17, 18.
Among other examples may be noted:-
Isa. 21:11. Mar. 16:6; Mar. 16:17-18. Luk. 1:17. Rom. 2:19-23.
1Co. 4:8; 1Co. 13:4-7; 1Co. 15:41-44. 2Co. 7:2-4. Heb. 11:32-38. Rev.
7:5-8; Rev. 21:18-20.
Apheresis: or, Front-Cut

Pronounced Aph-er’-e-sis, is the Greek word ἀφαίρεσις, and means а
taking away from, from ἀφαιρεῖν (aphairein), to take away, from απο.
(apo), away, αἱρεῖν (hairein), to take. It is a figure of etymology which
relates to the spelling of words, and is used of the cutting off of a letter
or syllable from the beginning of a word. We may, therefore, give it the
English name of FRONT-CUT. We see it in such words as ‘neath for
beneath; mazed for amazed. In the Scripture we have an example in
Coniah for Jeconiah. He is called Jeconiah in his genealogy (1Ch.
3:16); but, in Jer. 22:24, where Jehovah declares that He will cut him
off, his name corresponds with the act, for the front part is cut off, and
he is called “Coniah.”* [Note: Only here, and in 37:1.]

Jeconiah means Let Jehovah establish. Cutting off the first syllable
may intimate the disappointment (for the time) of the hope.

Josiah, who justified the hope expressed in his name (Let Jehovah
heal) that Jehovah would establish the kingdom, gave his son the
name of Eliakim, afterwards called Jehoiakim, which means God will
establish (as does his grandson’s, Jehoiachin-this Jeconiah). But his
hopes were vain. Josiah’s family is remarkable for the manner in
which the names are broken up and their kingdom overtaken by
disaster.

See Jer. 22:24. “As | live, saith the Lord, though Coniah, the son of
Jehoiakim king of Judah were the signet upon my right hand, yet
would | pluck thee thence”; and read on to the end of the chapter.

In verse 30, “Write ye this man childless” is explained to mean that
not one of his seven sons (1Ch. 3:17-18) sat upon his throne, but
Zerubbabel, his grandson, became governor after Coniah had died in
Babylon (2Ki. 25:29-30).

Apocope; or, End-Cut
A-péc’-o-pe is the Greek word ἁποκοπή, a cutting off, from
atrokotrTelv (apokoptein), to cut off, and this from ἁπό (apo), away
from, and кбптем (koptein), to cut. № is a figure of etymology which
relates to the spelling of words, and is used of cutting off a letter or
syllable from the end of a word. We may give it the name of END-
CUT. We have examples in such words as yon for yonder, after for
afterward.

In the Scripture we have an example in the name of Jude for
Judas.

There is no Apocope in the Greek; and therefore there is no
teaching in the use of the figure; which exists only in the translation.
Il. AFFECTING THE SENSE
Aposiopesis; or, Sudden-Silence
This is a rhetorical figure, and not a figure of grammar, but it may be
placed under the figures depending on omission, because in it
something is omitted.

Apo-si-o-pee-sis is the Greek word ἁποσιώπησις (a becoming
silent), from ἀποσιωπάω (aposi?pa?), to be silent after speaking, to
keep silence, observe a deliberate silence.

The name of this figure may be represented in English by
SUDDEN-SILENCE. The Latins named it RETICENTIA, which means
the same thing. It is the sudden breaking off of what is being said (or
written), so that the mind may be the more impressed by what is too
wonderful, or solemn, or awful for words: or when a thing may be, as
we sometimes say, “better imagined than described.”

Its use is to call our attention to what is being said, for the purpose
of impressing us with its importance.

It has been divided under four heads, according to the character of
the subject:-
1. Promise.

2. Anger and Threatening.

3. Grief and Complaint.

4. Enquiry and Deprecation.

1. Promise: where some great thing is promised, too great to be
conveyed in words
Exo. 32:31-32.-“And Moses returned unto the Lord, and said, Oh, this
people have sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.
Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin--; and if not, blot me, | pray thee,
out of thy book which thou hast written.”

Here it seems that Moses was about to promise something on
behalf of the people; but neither knew what promise he could make for
them, nor how far he could answer for its fulfilment by them. His
sudden silence is solemnly eloquent.
2Sa. 5:8.-“And David said on that day, Whosoever getteth up to the
gutter--.”

We learn from 1Ch. 11:6 that the promise was fulfilled in Joab, who
was made chief or captain. Hence these words have been supplied in
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] ‚ as we have explained above, under the figure of
Absolute Ellipsis, page 53.
1Ch. 4:10.-“And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that
thou wouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast, and that thine
hand might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that
it may not grieve me--”

Then there is a sudden silence, as though it were impossible for
Jabez to express the manner in which he would give God thanks and
declare his praise for His great mercies. But the words that
immediately follow seem to show that God was so much more ready
to hear than Jabez was to pray, that without waiting for him to finish
his prayer it is added, “And God granted him that which he requested.”
Dan. 3:15.-“Now if ye be ready that at what time ye hear the sound of
the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery and dulcimer, and all kinds of
music, ye fall down and worship the image which | have made -- but if
ye worship not,” etc.

Here Nebuchadnezzar was ready with his threat of the
punishment, but he was careful not to commit himself to any promise.
Luk. 13:9 has already been treated under the figure of Ellipsis: but
beside the grammatical ellipsis, there is also the rhetorical: “And if it
bear fruit--,” as though the vine-dresser would say, “I cannot say what
| will not do for it: not only will | not cut it down, but | will continue to
care for it and tend it!” The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has supplied the word, “well!”
2. Anger and Threatening
Gen. 3:22.-“And now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the
tree of life, and eat, and live for ever--Therefore the Lord God sent him
forth from the garden of Eden,” etc.

Here the exact consequences of eating of the tree of life in his
fallen condition are left unrevealed, as though they were too awful to
be contemplated: and the sudden silence leaves us in the darkness in
which the Fall involved us. But we may at least understand that
whatever might be involved in this unspoken threatening, it included
this fact:-/ will drive him away from the tree of life!

Gen. 20:3.-“Behold, thou art but a dead man-- for the woman which
thou hast taken; for she is a man’s wife.”

Here, we must supply # thou dost not restore her; or, her husband
will slay thee. This is clear from verse 7.

Jam. 3:1.-“My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall
receive the greater condemnation--.”

He does not stop to specify what the many things are, in which
those who occupy such positions may give cause of condemnation.
This is also to be understood as if it continued “unless we give a right
judgment,” etc. (Mat. 7:2).

3. Grief and Complaint
Gen. 25:22.-"If it be so, why am | thus--?”

Rebekah’s words of grief and complaint are not completed. She
could not understand why, if Jehovah was intreated and answered
Isaac’s prayer, she should so suffer that the answer was almost as
hard to be borne as her former condition.

Jdg. 5:29-30.-There is a wonderful Aposiopesis here, where the
mother of Sisera looks out of her lattice and wonders where Sisera is,
and why he does not return. Her wise ladies answered her, “But she
repeated her words to herself.” Her soliloquy ends in a sudden
silence. Everything is left to the imagination as to how she bears it. All
is lost in the sudden outburst Of the song “So perish all thy foes, O
Jehovah”! See under Homoeopropheron.

Psa. 6:3.-“My soul is also sore vexed; but thou, O Lord, how long--?”

The words are drowned in grief: “How long shall | be sore vexed?
How long [before thou wilt arise?]’ Thus his prayer is submitted to the
will of God.

Luk. 15:21.-“Father, | have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight,
and am no more worthy to be called thy son--.”

It is as though, broken down by the grief which the utterance of
these words brought into his heart, he could not continue, and say the
rest of what, we are told, he had resolved to say in verse 19.
Or it is also to show us as well, that the father’s joy to receive is so
great that he would not wait for the son to finish, but anticipated him
with his seven-fold blessing.

See under Polysyndeton.

Luk. 19:42.-“If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day,
the things which belong unto thy peace--! but now they are hid from
thine eyes.”

The blessedness involved in this knowledge is overwhelmed by
the tribulation which is to come upon the nation.

The continuation of the sense would probably be “How happy thou
wouldest have been! How blessed! How safe! How secure! but now
they are hid from thine eyes.”

4. Enquiry and Deprecation
Hos. 9:14.-“Give them, О Lord: what wilt thou give--?” As though
unable to conceive the punishment deserved, the Prophet breaks off
and goes back to the thought of verse 11.
Joh. 6:62.-“And if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he
was before--?”

This has already been referred to under Ellipsis (see p. 54). But
something more is implied; more than can be supplied by any specific
words, such as, “Will ye believe then?” For He did afterwards ascend
up, but they still refused to believe!
Act. 23:9.-According to some ancient MSS. all the critical Greek texts
read the verse, “We find no evil in this man: but, if a spirit or an angel
hath spoken to him--.”

Either the Pharisees were afraid to express their thoughts, or their
words were drowned in the “great dissension” (verse 10) which
immediately “arose.” For there is a sudden silence, which some
copyists have attempted to fill up by adding the words ur) θεομαχῶμεν.
(mee theomach?men), “let us not fight against God.”

Meiosis: or, A Be-Littleing
(A be-littleing of one thing to magnify another)
Mei-??-sis. Greek µείωσις, a lessening, or diminution: from µειόω
(mei-o-?), to make smaller.

It is known also by the name LITOTES, /i’-to-tees: Greek λιότης,
plainness, simplicity.

The Latins called it DIMINUTIO (Di-mi-nu-ti-o) and EXTENUATIO
(Ex-ten’-u-a’-ti-o).

By this figure one thing is diminished in order to increase another
thing. It thus differs from Tapeinosis (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ), in which
a thing is lessened in order to emphasize its own greatness or
importance.

In Meiosis there is an omission therefore, not of words, but of
sense. One thing is lowered in order to magnify and intensify
something else by way of contrast.

It is used for the purpose of emphasis; to call our attention, not to
the smallness of the thing thus lessened, but to the importance of that
which is put in contrast with it.

Gen. 18:27.-“And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, | have
taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, which am but dust and ashes.”

Here Abraham humbles himself; and, alluding to the creation of
man out of the dust of the ground (Gen. 2:7), he implies much more
than he expresses. In calling himself “dust and ashes,” he contrasts
himself with the high and holy God whom he is addressing, and takes
the place of a man most vile and a creature most abject. So Jehovah
uses the same figure in 1Ki. 16:2. Psa. 113:7, &c. See under
Synecdoche.

Num. 13:33.-“And we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so
we were in their sight.” This is the Meiosis of unbelief. To gain
credence for their words they exaggerated the size of the Anakim by
lessening their own stature. On the other hand, the language of faith
used a very different figure. Compare 14:9, under the Figure of
Ellipsis, page 37.
1Sa. 24:14.-“After whom is the king of Israel come out? After whom
dost thou pursue? After a dead dog, after a flea,” i.e., you do that
which is altogether unworthy of a king, in pursuing one who is as
harmless as a dead dog (compare 17:43; 2Sa. 3:8; 2Sa. 9:8; 2Sa.
16:9) and as worthless as a flea, which is poor game for a royal hunter
(1Sa. 26:20).

Ezr. 9:8.-“And now for a little space (Heb. moment) grace hath been
shewed from the Lord our God.” To magnify the greatness of the grace
the Holy Spirit, by Ezra, speaks of the “little space.” The comparison is
not to the greatness of their transgressions, which are stated in verses
6 and 7, etc., but to their length and the length of the previous
chastisement, which had been begun by the kings of Assyria. See
Neh. 9:32, and Ezr. 6:22, where Cyrus, “the king of Babylon” (5:13), is
called the king of Assyria, having absorbed the kingdoms of Media,
Persia, and Assyria, and thus the oppressor, by God’s grace, had
become the friend.
Psa. 22:6.-“I am a worm, and no man.” Here, as elsewhere, this figure
is used to denote a much greater depth of humility and affliction than
words can express. So Job. 25:6. Isa. 41:14. The greater the
humiliation, the greater the contrast with His glorification: for He who is
“a worm and no man” in Psa. 22:1-31 is “Jehovah my shepherd” of
Psa. 23:1-6, and “the King of glory” of Psa. 24:1-10 In these three
Psalms we thus have in xxii. “the Good Shepherd” in death (Joh.
10:11); “the Great Shepherd” in resurrection (Heb. 13:20; and “the
Chief Shepherd” in glory (1Pe. 5:4).
Isa. 40:15.-“Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are
counted as the small dust of the balance: behold, he taketh up the
isles as a very little thing.”

And even this fails to convey to our minds the wondrous gulf
between the finite and the infinite.

Verse 17: “All nations before him are as nothing: and they are
counted to him less than nothing and vanity.”
Mat. 15:26.-“It is not meet to take the children’s bread, and to cast it to
dogs.” It is not only not fair, but it is cruel to one’s children thus to
deprive them of their food.

See further under the figure of Hypocatastasis.
Mat. 18:14.-“Even so it is not the will of your Father which is in
heaven, that one of these little ones should perish.”

No! It is contrary to His wish. His will embraces much more than
this, it includes:-

Predestination (Eph. 1:5).

Regeneration (Joh. 1:13; Jam. 1:18).

Deliverance from the world (Gal. 1:4).

Sanctification (1Th. 4:3; Heb. 10:10).

Final Preservation, Resurrection, and Eternal Life (Joh. 6:39-40).
Mat. 22:3.-“And they would not come.” The Greek is:-oUk ἤθελον
ἐλθεῖν (οι eethelon elthein), they did not wish to come, this is
enhancing, by Meiosis, the fact that they not only absolutely refused,
but in doing so they acted only on the wish of their heart.

Luk. 17:9.-“Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that
were commanded him? | trow not.” {.6., | think not. More is to be
understood than is expressed: i.e., | know very well he doth not thank
him. So far from that, he scarcely notices the matter.

Joh. 15:20.-“If they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also,”
i.é., as surely as they have NOT kept my saying, they will not keep
yours. The whole context shows that this must be the figure of
Meiosis.

Rom. 10:19.- will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no
people.” οὐκ ἔθνος (ouk ethnos), а non-people. So 1Pe. 2:10 : “Which
in time past were not a people,” ой λαός" [Note: This is not the same
as Rom. 9:26, where the pronoun “my” is used.] (ou laos). Owing to
the reversive power of the negative our own word “nothing” is literally
a non-thing, i.e., a thing which has no existence at all.t [Note: In Amo.
6:13, “a thing of naught” is the same, а non-existent-thing]

Such were we Gentiles. But through grace, “a people” is now
being taken out from among all nations (Act. 15:14. Rev. 5:9; Rev.
7:9), which shall have an existence for ever and ever.
1Со. 9:17.-“For if | do this thing willingly, | have a reward.” He means
gratuitously; but lessens the wording, so as to increase his meaning.
See also under Oxymoron.
1Со. 15:9.-“I am the least of the apostles.” This is said to magnify the
grace of God (verse 10). Whereas, when magnifying his claims, he
could say to these same Corinthians, “I suppose | was not a whit
behind the very chiefest apostles” (2Co. 11:5; 2Co. 12:11-12).
Eph. 3:8.-“Who am less than the least of all saints.” This marks the
apostle’s growth in grace, who a year after could say he was “the chief
of sinners” (1Ti. 1:15). See also under Oxymoron.

Philem. 11.-“Which in time past was to thee unprofitable.” This is a
Meiosis, for Onesimus was guilty of injury.

Heb. 9:12.-“The blood of goats and calves,” (13) “the blood of bulls
and of goats.” Here the figure lessens the importance of the sacrifices
which were offered under the Law, in order to increase by contrast the
great sacrifice to which they all pointed.

Heb. 13:17.-“For that is unprofitable for you.” It is really much more
than that! It is disastrous and ruinous.

1Jn. 3:17.-“But whoso hath this world’s good,” etc.

Here the Greek is τὸν βίον τοῦ κόσμον (ton bion tou kosmou), the
life of the world, i.e., the means of life or of living which the world
gives. Whoso has this, and will not give it up for his brother, how
dwelleth the Love of God in him? The force of the Meiosis is seen
when we compare this with verse 16, “We ought to lay down our lives
for the brethren.” But here is a man who will not only not lay down his
life (ψυχή), psyche, but will not even part with the means of supporting
it. What a contrast to true love! Hereby know we LOVE, because HE
laid down His life for us.
Tapeinosis; or, Demeaning
(A lessening of a thing in order to increase it)
Ta-pei-n??-sis. Greek ταπείνωσις, a demeaning or humbling.

This differs from Meiosis in that in Meiosis one thing is diminished
in order, by contrast, to increase the greatness of another, or
something else.

Whereas, in Tapeinosis the thing that is lessened is the same thing
which is increased and intensified.

The figure was also called ANTENANTIOSIS. Ant’-en-an-ti-o -sis
from амт! (anti), over against, or instead of, and ἐναντίος (enantios),
opposite.

When the figure is used parenthetically, it is called ANRESIS. See
below under Parenthesis.

The figure is used in connection with nouns, verbs, and adverbs,

1. Positively.

2. Negatively.

1. Positively
ONE (231) in the plural (in Heb.) is used for a few or some:-
Gen. 27:44.-“Tarry with him a few days, until thy brother’s fury turn
away.”

We learn from 29:20 that the love which he bore to Rachel is
emphasized by speaking of the seven years in which he served for her
as “a few days.”

SOME (tic) in plural (in Greek) is used for the greater number:-
Rom. 3:3.-“For what if some did not believe?” Our attention is by this
at once pointed to the fact that it was in reality the very opposite. It
was only “some” who believed, while the nation as a whole did not
believe.
1Ti. 4:1.-“Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times
some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits
(πνεύµασιν πλάνοις, wandering or deceiving spirits or angels), and
teachings of demons:” i.e., a vast number of people will be deceived
by evil angels and demons in these last days.

Act. 5:36.-“Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody” (τινα) i.e.,
some great person; as is explained in Act. 8:9.

Gal. 2:6.-“But of these who seemed to be somewhat (1!).” They
seemed to be something, really they were nothing (6:3).
SICK, for those who were dead in sins:
Rom. 5:6.-“For when we were yet without strength” (ἀσθενῶν,
asthen?n, sick). We were really “dead in sin,” but are spoken of as
infirm, because called “ungodly,” “sinners” (verses 6-8), “enemies”
(verse 10).

REBUKE, for the great punishment of excommunication.
20ο. 2:6.-“Sufficient to such a man is this punishment” (ἐπιτιμία,
epitimia), rebuke. See further under /diom

2. Negatively
When the emphasis is made by the use of the negative in order to
express the positive in a very high degree, this is the figure of
Antenantiosis (see above).

When we say of a man that “he is no fool,” we mean that he is very
wise; or when we say of a thing, “it is not a hundred miles from here,”
we mean that it is quite close at hand. We thus emphasize that which
we seem to lessen: e.g., when it is written, “I praise you not,” it means
| greatly blame you!

Exo. 20:7.-“The Lord will not hold him guiltless:” i.e., He will hold him
guilty of breaking the whole law.

Lev. 10:1.-They “offered strange fire before the Lord, which he had
commanded them not.” Here, the figure is translated. The Heb. is
literally, “which the Lord had not commanded them,” j.e., He had very
solemnly prohibited it; see Exo. 30:9.

Num. 21:23.-“And Sihon would not suffer Israel to pass through his
border.” Heb.: “would not give permission,” i.e., he did more, he
prohibited them, as the verse goes on to explain, and opposed them
even to the extent of using force.

Psa. 43:1.-“Plead my cause against an ungodly (margin, Heb.,
‘unmerciful’) nation.” Heb. Ма 3cnr (12 chahseed), not merciful, i.e.,
cruel and malignant.

Psa. 51:17.-“A broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not
despise: {6., Thou wilt graciously accept and welcome and bless.
Psa. 78:50.-“He spared not their soul from death,” i.e., He gave their
life over to the pestilence.

Psa. 83:1 (2).-“Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and
be not still, О God:” i.e., Arise, О God; and speak; vindicate and
deliver me from mine enemies.

Psa. 84:11.-“No good thing will he withhold from them that walk
uprightly:” {.8., he will give them every good thing, and preserve them
from all evil.

Psa. 107:38.-“And suffereth not their cattle to decrease:” {6., will
abundantly multiply their cattle.

Pro. 12:3.-“A man shall not be established by wickedness:” i.e., he
shall be overthrown.

Pro. 17:21.-“The father of a fool hath no joy:” i.e., he hath plenty of
sorrow.

Pro. 18:5.-“It is not good to accept the person of the wicked,” i.e., it is
a very hateful thing in God’s sight to do so.
Pro. 30:25.-“The ants are a people not strong,” {Θ., very weak.

Isa. 14:6.-“And none hindereth,” {6., all help.

Isa. 42:3.-“A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax
shall he not quench:” i.e., He will strengthen the bruised reed and
kindle to a flame the smouldering wick.

Jer. 2:8.-“The prophets prophesied by Baal, and walked after things
that do not profit:” i.e., that led to their ruin. So verse 11.

Zec. 8:17.-“Love no false oath,” i.e., hate every such oath.

Mat. 2:6.-And thou Bethlehem, in the land of Juda, art not the least
among the princes of Juda:” {6., thou art the greatest!

Mat. 12:32.-“It shall not be forgiven him:” {6., he shall have the
gravest punishment in this life and in the life to come (Mar. 3:29). Just
as those, on the other hand, whose sins are forgiven are “blessed”
(Rom. 4:7).

Joh. 6:37.-“Him that cometh to me, | will in no wise cast out.”

Here, there is very much more implied than is expressed in the
literal words. Not only will | not cast him out, but | will by all means
receive him and preserve him, and defend him: he shall never perish,
neither shall any man pluck him out of My hand. Compare 10:28, and
see further under Ellipsis (page 106) and Repeated Negation and
Synonymia below.

Joh. 14:18.-‘I will not leave you comfortless,” i.e., | will certainly come
to you by My Holy Spirit and be your ever present help and defence.
Moreover, | will come again and receive you to Mine own self.
Act. 20:12.-“And they brought the young man alive, and were not a
little comforted:” i.e., they were very greatly comforted.
Act. 21:39.-“A citizen of no mean city:” i.e., a very important city.

Tarsus was celebrated as a distinguished seat of Greek
Philosophy and Literature. According to Strabo it ranked with Athens
and Alexandria in the number of its schools and learned men.

Act. 22:18.-“Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for
they will not receive thy testimony concerning me:” i.e., they will not
only reject it, oppose it to the uttermost, but will seek to kill thee.

Act. 26:19.-“I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision”: {6., | was
immediately and altogether obedient. He thus makes his own
obedience more emphatic; while by stating it negatively he denies
what his enemies implied. They implied that he ought to have been
disobedient; but he meets this by asserting that he was “not
disobedient,” /.e., most obedient.

Rom. 1:13.-“I would not have you ignorant, brethren.”

This means very much more than a mere negative wish. It is a
strong positive and earnest desire that they might assuredly know and
be well instructed.

Ignorance is man’s special human infirmity. Animals know more
than man (Isa. 1:3). No animal is so helpless as man in the years of
infancy.

It is remarkable, therefore, that in connection with the Church of
God, and the epistles addressed to churches as such, containing the
special instruction neccssary in consequence of man’s ignorance
concerning the church as the mystery of God, there are six different
occasions on which it is written: “I would not have you ignorant,
brethren.”

“SIX” is the number specially significant of man. Man was created
on the sixth day; and, wherever in Scripture we have this number or
any multiple of it, it always stamps the subject as having to do with
Man.* [Note: Many illustrations of this will be found in Number in
Scripture, by the same author and publisher.]

The significance of these six occurrences of this weighty
expression will be seen by those who have patience to work them out
in the order in which they are given to us by the Holy Spirit.

Rom. 1:13. Of Paul’s purpose to prosecute his great mission and

ministry to the saints in Rome. So chap. 15:23.

Rom. 11:25. That blindness in part is happened to Israel.

10ο. 10:1-11. That the camp in the wilderness was the type of the

baptized assembly under the preaching of the kingdom.

1Со. 12:1. Concerning spiritual things connected with the Church

as the Body of Christ by the baptism with the Holy Spirit.

2Co. 1:8. Of the trouble at Ephesus, at the close of his ministry

there (Act. 19:1-41), when his preaching the kingdom ends and
the revelation of the Mystery begins.
1Th. 4:13. Concerning those that are asleep. Their resurrection
and translation with the saints that are alive at the coming of
the Lord, to be for ever with Him, when the Mystery is
completed.
Rom. 1:16.-“I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ:” {6., | count it
my highest honour and glory to proclaim it, and to suffer for it, while |
have full confidence in its power to accomplish all God’s purposes of
grace.
Rom. 4:19.-“And being not weak in faith”: /е., Abraham being very
strong in faith.
Rom. 5:5.-“Hope maketh not ashamed”: {6., it enables us to “rejoice
in hope of the glory of God” (verse 2), and to “joy in God through our
Lord Jesus Christ.” This hope, therefore, is no false hope, but will
prove a great and eternal reality.
Rom. 10:2.-“They have a zeal of God, but not according to
knowledge.”
By lessening the terms of the expression, the truth is more strongly
stated; and the emphasis is thrown on their blindness and ignorance,
which is enlarged upon in the next verse, while zeal and ignorance are
combined in verse 19. Hence the expression, “not according to
knowledge,” by the figure of Tapeinosis means really with great
blindness.

Rom. 13:10.-“Love worketh no ill to his neighbour’: i.e., it refuses to
work ill, and not only so, but it works good for his neighbour.

1Со. 2:14.-“The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of
God”: i.e., he does more than this, he rejects them, he will not have
them: why? “For they are foolishness unto him.” This on the one hand
constitutes the guilt of man in the invariable result of the exercise of
his “free-will”: while on the other hand it is equally true as to God’s
sovereignty; “neither can he know them (lit., get to know them),
because they are spiritually discerned.”

1Со. 11:22.-“I praise you not”: i.e., | condemn you in this thing.

2Co. 2:11.-"We are not ignorant of his devices,” i.e., we are very well
aware of them.

Gal. 5:21.-“They which do such things, shall not inherit the kingdom of
God”: i.e., they shall not only not inherit the kingdom, but shall be cast
out into outer darkness and destroyed without remedy.
Heb. 11:16.-“Wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God”:
i.e., God is well-pleased to be their God, and to own them as His
chosen people.

Heb. 13:2.-“Be not forgetful to entertain strangers”: /.e., make it your
business to remember to show hospitality.

Rev. 12:11.-“They loved not their lives unto the death.” The fact
implied is that they disregarded their life to the point of death, and that
because there was One whom they loved more than life and for
whose sake they willingly gave it up.

Rev. 18:7.-“l am no widow’: i.e., | am well-husbanded and prosperous.
Catabasis (See Anabasis)
Syllogismus; or, Omission of the Conclusion
Syl’-lo-gis’-mus. Greek, συλλογισμός, a reckoning altogether, a
bringing of all the premisses; and, the conclusion before the mind.
From σύν (sun), together, and λογίζεσθαι (logizesthai), to reckon.
(Hence the word “logic”).

The regular form of every argument consists of three propositions
of which the first two are called “premisses” (the first being the major,
and the latter the minor), while the last, which necessarily follows from
them, is called the “conclusion.”

But the term Syllogismus is given to this figure because it is a
departure from this rule, the law of logic being legitimately broken for
the sake of emphasis.

It falls into this division because it is a figure of Rhetoric, in which
something is omitted for the sake of emphasis. It is not the omission of
words, as such, as in Ellipsis; or of sense, as in Meiosis or Tapeinosis;
but it is a figure in which the premisses are stated, but the conclusion
is omitted, and left to the imagination to enhance and heighten the
effect; as when we say, “it can be better imagined than described.”
Indeed, so great is the emphasis which is thus acquired that the Latins
gave it other names.

They called it SIGNIFICATIO, because something is signified
which is not expressed:

RATIOCINATIO, or Reasoning, because only the Reasons (and
not the conclusion) are stated; or, special importance is given to the
reasons, even though the conclusion may be given (See Rom. 3:1-31)

And it is called EMPHASIS, because of the emphasis thus given to
the argument which is omitted.
1Sa. 17:4-7.-The description of Goliath’s armour and weapons is
given; and it is left for us to conclude how great his strength must have
been.

Isa. 2:3-4.-“Out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord
from Jerusalem. And he shall judge among the nations, and shall
rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares,
and their spears into pruninghooks.”

Here the facts, or premisses, are stated, but it is left for us to draw
the conclusion as to the marvellous results of this wonder-working
word, which going out of Zion shall bring them about. That “Word of
the Lord” by which the heavens and earth were created shall presently
be spoken and bring peace and prosperity to the nations.

Isa. 4:1.-“And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man,
saying, We will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel: only let
us be called by thy name, to take away our reproach.”

This is the continuation and conclusion of chap. 3: in which, from
verse 18, the punishment of the pride of the “daughters of Zion” is set
forth: but it is left for us to draw the solemn conclusion, How great
must be the desolation:-the gates, where the husbands of the
daughters of Zion used to assemble, now mourn and are deserted;
(3:26. Jer. 14:2. Lam. 1:4)-and the women whom many men did woo
now come and offer themselves to one man, renouncing the legal
claim of the wife (Exo. 21:10).
Isa. 49:20.-Here the greatness of Zion’s blessing and prosperity is
shown by the statement of the facts in verses 18-21. It is left for us to
draw this conclusion which is left unstated.
Mat. 10:30.-“But the very hairs of your head are all numbered,” {6.,
therefore how infinite must be the knowledge of our “Father”! how
should | not therefore fear Him!
Mat. 24:20.-“But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on
the sabbath day.” The conclusion is implied:-for then would your
troubles and distress be increased and intensified beyond the power
of tongue to tell.
Luk. 7:44.-“Thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath
washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her
head.” What is implied is-How much greater therefore is her love than
yours! So verses 45 and 46.
1Со. 11:6.-“If the woman be not covered, let her be shorn also.”

But she is not shorn, therefore the conclusion is, let her be
covered.
2Th. 3:10.-“If any would not work, neither should he eat.”

Here the conclusion is to be supplied: Every man must eat;
therefore every man must work: for it is not meant that a man’s food is
to be withdrawn from him.

Enthymema; or, Omission of Premiss
En’-thy-mee-ma. Greek ἐνθύμημα, a thought or a consideration.

This is the opposite of Syllogismus.

In Syllogismus, the premisses are stated, but the conclusion is
omitted; while, in Enthymema, the conclusion is stated and one or
both of the premisses omitted.

Both are alike, therefore, in being an abbreviated Syllogism.

It is also related to Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), in
that it is an implication. But in Hypocatastasis it is an ordinary
statement or word which is to be implied; while, in Enthymema it is the
premiss of an argument which is left to be supplied.

The Latins call it COMMENTUM, a thought or a contrivance, and

CONCEPTIO, the wording or drawing up of a statement.

It may be illustrated thus:-“We are dependent; we should,
therefore, be humble.” Here the major premiss is omitted-“dependent
persons should be humble.”

A Biblical example occurs in
Rom. 7:1-6.-Here the fact is asserted that law has dominion over a
man only while he is alive (verse 1), and this fact is applied to those
who died (i.e., were judicially reckoned as having died) when Christ
died. So that all the members of the body of Christ died, and therefore
the law has no logger dominion over them (verses 5, 6).

In proof of this, an illustrative argument is used, as to the case of a
husband and wife. Both are bound to each other by law: and, while
both are alive the union of one of them with another person is
unlawful; but, if one be dead, then such a union on the part of the
survivor is legitimate.

But only one of the cases is given: viz., the death of the husband.

The death of the wife is there, but only in thought; and this other
premiss has to be supplied by the mind in the course of the argument.

So that after the third verse we must add the other premiss in
some such words as these:-

“And if the wife die, | need not say that she is free’; or, “but it goes
without saying that if the wife die, of course she is free.”

Wherefore (as the conclusion is given in verse 6) we died in Christ,
and are therefore free from that law wherein we were held; for “he that
has once so died stands justified (the penalty having been paid) from
his sin.

Now if we died with Christ we have been raised also with Him (6:8.
Col. 2:12). Thus we were planted together with Him in “His death, and
raised with Him (6:4) to newness of life. And be it noted that this is no
mere marriage union. To prevent this conclusion the verb to marry is
not used in verses 3 and 4. There, instead of the usual verb marry,
which we should expect to find, we have the verb to become, with the
dative case; and must in each instance supply the Ellipsis. In the case
of the woman, she “becomes” joined, “becomes” bound under the law
to a husband; but, in the case of those who died with Christ, they
“become” united to Him as members of His body and “become” His
property. Their union with Him is not in Incarnation, but in death,
burial, and resurrection; and having died with Him are freed from the
Law, instead of being bound to it.

Mat. 27:19.-“Have thou nothing to do with that just man.”

Here the fire, and feeling, and urgency of Pilate’s wife is all the
more forcible, in that she does not stop to formulate a tame, cold
argument, but she omits the major premiss; which is greatly
emphasized by being left for Pilate to supply. The complete Syllogism
would have been:

1. It is very wicked to punish a just or innocent man.

2. Jesus is a just man.

3. Have therefore nothing to do with punishing him.

The conclusion thus contains the proof of each of the premisses
on which it rests.

Thus is emphasized one of the four testimonies borne to the
innocence of the Lord Jesus by Gentiles at the time of His
condemnation.

1. Pilate’s wife (Mat. 27:19).

2. Pilate himself, “I am innocent of the blood of this just person”
(Mat. 27:24).

3. The dying malefactor, “This man hath done nothing amiss” (Luk.
23:41).

4. The Centurion, “Certainly this was a righteous man” (Luk.
23:47).
05" π. SECOND DIVISION"

SECOND DIVISION
06" р. Figures Involving Addition"
FIGURES INVOLVING ADDITION

WE now come to the second great division of our subject, viz., figures
which depend, for their new form, on some addition, either of words or
of sense.

In the one case, only the words are affected, by their repetition in
various forms and ways. In the other, the addition is made to the
sense by the use of other words.
These all come under the head of Pleonastic Figures; just as the
first division included all Elliptical Figures.

All these various forms of repetition and addition are used for the
purpose of attracting our attention, and of emphasizing what is said,
which might otherwise be passed by unnoticed.

When we reflect that no error in composition is more readily made
than the undue repetition of words, called Tautology, it is remarkable
that there are more than forty different ways of repeating words used
by the Holy Spirit: over forty legitimate modes of breaking the law
which governs the use of language; and of repeating words, in sucha
way that not only is there no tautology, but beauty is added to the
composition and emphasis given to the sense.

Under this division come all the forms of repetition, either of letters,
words, sentences, or subjects; which may be thus classified:-
Figures involving Repetition and Addition

|. Affecting Words.

1. Repetition of letters and syllables.

a. The same letters.

b. Different letters.
2. Repetition of the same word.

а. In the same sense.

b. Ina different sense.
3. Repetition of different words.
a. Ina similar order (but same sense).
b. Ina different order (but same sense).
c. With a similar sound (but different sense).
d. With a different sound (but similar sense).
4. Repetition of sentences and phrases.
5. Repetition of subjects (Correspondence).
ll. Affecting the Sense.
1. By way of Repetition.
2. By way of Amplification.
3. By way of Description.
4. By way of Conclusion.
5. By way of Interposition.
6. By way of Argumentation.
We will now consider the various Figures which come under these
various heads:
07" 7. Ι. Affecting Words"
|. AFFECTING WORDS
1. OF LETTERS AND SYLLABLES
(a) Of the same Letters

Homeeopropheron; or, Alliteration

The Repetition of the same Letter or Syllable at the commencement of
Successive Words
Ho-mee-o-proph’-e-ron, from ὅμοιος (homoios), like, and προφέρω
(propherd), to carry, or place before: i.e., Successive words which
carry the same letter or the same syllable before, or at the beginning.
This figure, therefore, is the repetition of the same letter or syllable

at the beginning of two or more words in close succession. Its English
name is ALLITERATION (from ad, to, and litera, letter). Churchill
speaks of “Apt Alliteration’s Artful Aid.”
This figure is seen, of course, only in the Hebrew and the Greek. It
is difficult to reproduce it in a translation. And where it occurs in the
English it may be only accidental, and carry no weight or emphasis.

The song of Deborah, in Jdg. 5:1-31, abounds with examples of
Homeeopropheron, which add great fire and force and beauty to the
original. It is impossible to accurately and literally reproduce it in
English, but with a little liberty we can give the English reader some
idea of the use of this Figure.

We may as well, at the same time, do so according to its structure
(see under Correspondence) and we present the structure first in
outline, before setting it out in full.

The structure of Jdg. 5:1-31 in outline:

А 2-. Praise to Jehovah for the avenging of Israel.

В а -2,3. Israel. The people’s voluntary service.
Ь — 4-8. Contrasted states of the country.
а 9. Israel. The leaders’ voluntary service.
Ь — 10, 11. Contrasted states of the country.
B b 12-18. Contrasted conduct.
a 19-22. The Enemy. Assault and defeat.
Ь 23-27. Contrasted conduct.
a 28-30. The Enemy. Presumption and disappointment.
Α 31. Praise to Jehovah for the avenging of Israel.
Adhering to this form, we may set the song forth thus:-
А 2. Bless ye Jehovah,
В а That the Leaders in Israel took the lead;
That the people willingly offered themselves.
Hear, O ye kings; Hearken, O ye princes;
I, even I, will sing to Jehovah,
Will strike the strings unto Jehovah, Israel’s God.
b — Jehovah, when thou settest forth from Seir,
When thou wentest forth from Edom’s field,
The earth trembled, yea, the heavens dropped;
Yea, the clouds dropped down water,
The mountains melted away before Jehovah,
Even yon, Sinai, before Jehovah, God of Israel.*
[Note: Hyperbole (q.v.).]
In the days of Shamgar, son of Anath,
In Jael’s days,
The highways were effaced;
The travellers had to walk in tortuous ways,
Effaced were Israel’s hamlets-effaced
Till |, Deborah, rose up-rose up a mother in Israel
New gods had they got them,
Therefore the press of war approached their gates.
Was there found shield or spear among forty
thousand in Israel?
а — My heart is with the leaders of Israel,
Who willingly offered themselves among the People:
Bless ye Jehovah.
b — Уе who ride upon white asses,
Ye who recline upon rich rugs,
Who walk by the way-Speak!
Instead of the shouting of the archers among the
water-drawers.
They praise there the righteous acts of Jehovah,
His righteous acts in His villages in Israel.
Then the People of Jehovah hastened down to the
gates.
B Ь Awake, awake,t [Note: Geminatio.] Deborah!
Awake, awake, speak the song!
Barak, arise! conquer thy conquest,
Thou son of Abinoam.
Then down against the robust rushed a remnant;
Jehovah’s Host rushed with me against the
powerful,

From Ephraim’s stock-the victors over Amalek:

After thee marched Benjamin among thy peoples;

From Machir came the Masters,

Men that wield the Marshall's staff out of Zebulun.

But the princes of Issachar were with Deborah,

Yea, Issachar was like Barak,

When into the valley his men threw themselves at
his feet,

While by the brooks abode Reuben,

With great resolutions of heart.

Why sittest thou among the folds listening to the
shepherd's flute?

By the brooks Reuben has great searchings of
heart.

Gilead stays beyond Jordan,

And Dan-Why does he abide in his ships?

Asher stays still on the shore of the sea,

Staying still in its bays,

But Zebulun hazarded his soul unto death

With Naphthali, upon the heights of the field.

а Kings came to fight-then the Kings of Canaan fought
At Taanach and by Megiddo’s Meres;
Silver gained they none.
From heaven they strove; the stars in their courses
They strove against Sisera:
Kishon’s stream swept them away-
A stream of succours was Kishon’s stream.
Tread strongly on, my Soul!
When struck the sounding hoof of the rushing steed-
Of the rushingst [Note: Epizeuxis (q.v.).] strong ones.
Ь Curse ye Meroz, commands Jehovah's Angel,
Curse ye, curse ye her inhabitants,
Because they came not to Jehovah’s help,
To Jehovah's help* [Note: Epizeuxis (q.v.).] amid
the mighty.
Blessed above women be Jael,
Heber the Kenite’s wife,
Blessed above woment [Note: Anaphora (q.v.).] of
the tents!
He asks for water, she gives him milk;
In a beauteous bowl she carries him cream:
With her left hand she takes the tent-peg,
With her right the heavy hammer,
She swings it over Sisera, smites his head,

Crashes through and transfixes his temples,

At her feet he falls-he lies,

At her feett [Note: Anaphora (q.v.).] he lies, writhes
again, and falls,

As he writhes himself again he falls-dead!} [Note:
Asyndeton (q.v.).]

а Sisera’s mother looks from the window-edge,
She looks from the lattice-ledge and laments:

“Why lingers his car so long?

Why stop his chariots’ steps?”

Her wise ladies answer her,

But she repeats her words to herself:

“Will they not find booty and share it?

Two maidens for each man;[Note: Some critics have
quoted this as a specimen of the low moral
standard of theScriptures, not seeing that it is
merely telling us what the heathen woman (Sisera’s
mother) said! And in that woman’s language we
have the key to the victory which one woman won;
and to the vengeance which another woman
wrought.]

Booty of purple robes for Sisera,

Yea, booty of purple robes!

Two for each neck of the captors?” [Note: Aposiopesis
(q.v.).]

А So fall all thy foes, О Jehovah,
But let them that love Him shine forth as the sun in his
strength.
Rom. 11:33.-“How unsearchable (ἀνεξερεύνητα, anexereuneeta) are
his judgments, and his ways past finding out (ἀνεξιχνίαστοι,
anexichniastoi)!”

Here, the two important words are rendered still more emphatic by
commencing with the same syllables.

His judgments are anexereuneeta (unsearchable), and His ways
anexichniastoi (untrackable).

This means that His judgments are incomprehensible, and His
ways untrackable. The former word occurs nowhere else in the N.T.;
the latter only here, and in Eph. 3:8, where it is rendered “unsearch-
able”:-“The unsearchable riches of Christ.” This does not merely
vaguely express that Christ's riches are uncountable or untold, but
that they cannot be traced out. The context shows that this present
interval between “the sufferings of Christ” and “the glory that should
follow,” had been kept a secret (μυστήριον, musteerion, or mystery),
and had not been revealed, until it was made known by the Spirit
through Paul (Rom. 16:25-26. Eph. 3:2-11. Col. 1:26-27). The
prophets sought to know the secret as to “what or what manner of
time” the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify: but, it was
untrackable; they could not follow it: His ways were “past finding out.”*
[Note: See The Mystery, by the same author and publisher.]
1Th. 1:2.-“We give thanks to God always for you all.” The last words
are emphasized by being put as a beautiful Homoeo-propheron. The
Greek is πάντοτε περὶ πάντων (Pantote Peri Ραπίφη), i.e., always
concerning you all.
1Th. 5:23.-We give our own rendering: “And may the God of peace
Himself sanctify you wholly (ὁλοτελεῖς, holoteleis), and may your
whole being (ὁλόκληρον, holokleeron), the spirit, and the soul, and
the body, be preserved (i.e., reserved, see 1Ре. 1:4. 2Pe. 2:4; 2Pe.
2:9; 2Pe. 2:17; 2Pe. 3:7. Jud. 1:6; Jud. 1:13), unblamable at (ἐν) the
parousia (presence or coming) of our Lord Jesus Christ.”

Here the two words are “holofeleis kai holokleeron.”
Heb. 1:1.-“God who at sundry times and in divers manners, etc.”
πολυμερῶς καὶ πολυτρόπως πάλαι (polymers και polytropabs palai),
“in many parts and many ways of old.”

Here, there is both Homoeopropheron and Homeeteleuton: the two
words both beginning with poly- and ending with -qbs.

Homeeoteleuton; or, Like Endings
The Repetition of the same Letters or Syllables at the end of
Successive Words
Hepr-moe-o-tel-eu’-ton. From ὅμοιος (homoios), like, and Τελευτή
(teleutee), an ending, i.e., words with like endings.

This is the opposite Figure to Homoeopropheron; and is used
when successive words end with the same or similar letters or
syllables.

These two figures are for the most part involved in others which
affect the whole of the connected words; and therefore we shall meet
with other examples as we proceed.
Mar. 12:30.-"This is the first commandment.” In the Greek this
sentence consists of three words, each ending with the same syllable:
αὕτη πρώτη ἐντολή (hautee ргфее entolee); and thus our attention is
called to this weighty saying.
1Pe. 1:3-4.-“Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a
lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an
inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away.”

Here, the Homaeoteleuton emphasizes the wondrous character of
this inheritance:-

ἄφθαρτον,  ἁμίαντον, ἅμαιραντον (aphtharton, amianton,
amaranton), uncorruptible, undefiled, unfading. It is difficult accurately
to reproduce the sound of this in English; except in marking it by the
voice in reading aloud.

We might say, incorruptible, indefilable, indestructible, but this
would be at the expense of exact accuracy in translating.
Homeeoptoton: or, Like Inflections
The Repetition of Inflections
Ho-me-op ‘-to-ton, from ὅμοιος (homoios), like, and TrTWoic (ptqpsis), a
falling, which in grammar means an inflection: i.e., a case formed by
the declining of a noun, or tenses, είο., in the conjugation of a verb: as
in the Latin message of Julius Сбзаг, “veni, vidi, vici,” i.e., “I came, |
saw, | conquered.”

This figure differs from the two former, in that the endings are not
only similar, but the similarity arises from the same inflections of verbs
or nouns, etc.

It will be seen, therefore, that this figure belongs peculiarly to the
Original languages, and cannot always be transferred in translation.
Rom. 12:15.-“Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them
that weep.” Here the inflections of the infinitive and participles
necessarily go together in the Greek, though, of course, not in the
English.

xaipelv μετὰ χαιρόντων. Chairein meta chairontdpn.

κλαίειν μετὰ κλαιοντων. Klaiein meta klaiontpn.
The two lines likewise each exhibit an example of Polyptqbton (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ), and also of Homoeopropheron (q.v. [Note: Which
see.]).

The figure may be reproduced in English thus:-

Be cheerful with those that are glad,

Be tearful with those that are sad.
2Co. 11:3.-Lest your minds “be corrupted from the simplicity
(ἀπλότητος, haploteetos) and purity (аумтптос, hagnoteetos), that is
towards (i.e., with reference to) Christ.”

This is the reading of the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ,
and is according to all the critical Greek Texts.

In English the words maybe rendered “simpleness and
singleness.”
2Ti. 3:2-3.-In these two verses nearly all the words end in -οι (-o/), the
masculine plural case-termination.

These similar endings may arise, as above, where the words are
quite different. But when the two words are derived from the same
root; or when they occur, not in the language in which they appear, but
in the language from which they are translated (either written or
spoken), then the figure is called-
Paromeeosis: or, Like-Sounding Inflections
The Repetition of Inflections similar in Sound

Par’-o-moe-o-sis. Greek, παροµοίωσις, assimilation, especially of
words; assonance. It is from παρά (para), beside, and ὅμοιωσις
(homoosis), likeness.

It is called also PAROMCEON, παρόµοιον, nearly like.
Sometimes it is wrongly called Parechesis, παρήχησις, likeness of
sound or tone, from παρά, beside, and ἦχος (eechos), a sound, or
ἤχησις (eecheesis), a sounding. But Parechesis properly describes
the figure when one of the two words belongs to another language, or
when the similarity is seen only in the original language and not in the
translation. See Parechesis.

Mat. 11:17.-“We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced
(grcheesasthe); we have mourned unto you, and ye have not
lamented (ekopsasthe).”

Here the two words have the same ending, sasthe, which greatly
emphasizes the sense. It is as though we could render it, “We have
piped for you, and ye never stept; we dirged for you, and ye never
wept.” Though this would emphasize it, it would be by another figure
(Paronomasia, q.v. [Note: Which see] ), because the words are
similar, only vaguely in sound, but are not spelt with the same letters.

And, though the similar ending is caused by the inflection of the
verb, it is not the figure of Homoeoptoton, because the two words are
derived from the same root, which lends an additional force and
emphasis.

In the language of Syria, which Christ probably used, the words
would be r-aule, ra-ked-toon, and ff-auld, ar-ked-toon, both
verbs being from the same root and differing only in the conjugation:
r-a, meaning in one, Ю Геар or spring up, from joy (Ecc. 3:4) and in
the other {ο leap or start up from fear (Psa. 29:6; Psa. 114:4; Psa.
114:6).*[Note: This figure is not preserved in the Hebrew translation of
the New Testament; the word being soto: rekadtem, and
oct; sephadtem, which is Homoeoteleuton pure and simple.]
Joh. 1:5.-“And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness
comprehended it not.”

The figure does not appear either in the English or the Greek: but
in the Chaldee or Syriac language “darkness” is -aé, k’vel and
“comprehended?” is -ἀδ, kabel.

Joh. 10:1.-“Не that entereth not in by the door into the sheep fold.” 15
beautifully expressed in the Syriac id ОГМг ὅδόέῖί, min thar
leteero

1Co. 1:23-24.-In these verses there is a beautiful combination of four
different words from the same root in order to emphasize the
solemnity of the passage:
“We preach Christ crucified (udé, mishkal, a cross, see Gen.
48:14), unto the Jews a stumbling-block (GUI, mikshol), and unto
the Greeks foolishness (ndé, sekel), but unto them that are called,
both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power (audéé, hishkeel) of God
and the wisdom (udé, sekel) of God.”

Acrostichion: or, Acrostic

Repetition of the same or successive Letters at the beginnings of
Words or Clauses
The English name of this figure is Ac-ros’-tic, and comes from the
Greek, ἄκρος (akros), at the point (i.e., at the beginning or the end)
and στίχος (stichos), a row or order. It is a figure of repetition, not of
the same letter, but of different letters at the beginning or end of words
arranged in lines.

These letters may be thus repeated at the beginning or end of
lines, either in the same order in which they occur in the Alphabet (in
which case they are called ABECEDARIAN), or in some other certain
or particular order, making the letters at the beginning or end of
successive lines or words spell another word.

The Greeks gave it another name, PARASTICHIS (парасту!с)
from παρά (para), beside, and στίχος (stichos), a row, meaning that
the letters are placed at the side.
By the use of this peculiar figure, our attention is attracted to the
special importance of certain passages. There are thirteen such
passages in the Scriptures, and whenever we meet with them, we are
asked to give great attention to them, and to put marked emphasis
upon them.

The following are all the Acrostic or Abecedarian passages in the

Bible, in which the order of the Alphabet is followed:-
Psa. 10:1-18.-These two Psalms are linked together by an irregular
alphabet running through, and thus combining the two. Psa. 9:1-20
beginning with f and Psa. 10:1-18 with é, which begins the last half of
the alphabet.

The figure tells us that we are to connect these two Psalms
together, and shows us that we are to read them together, and that
their subject is one: viz.: “the man of the earth” (10:18), the Antichrist;
whose days, character, and end they give. While “the Great
Tribulation” is referred to twice (9:9 and 10:1). ENUIU ASFA, “times
of trouble.” A phrase which occurs only in these two places.

Other significant expressions also occur in each of the two
Psalms:
“Arise,” 9:19, 10:12; “the oppressed,” 9:9, 10:18; “forget not the
poor,” 9:12, 10:12; “the heathen,” 9:5, 15, 17, 19, 20, and 10:16.

Psa. 9:1-20 is “the expectation of the poor” (18). Psa. 10:1-18 is
“the desire of the meek’ (17).

The acrostic alphabet is incomplete and irregular, like the “times”
which these Psalms describe. We cannot reproduce the two Psalms
here, but can only indicate the Acrostic in them:-

f commences each of the four lines of verses 1, 2; a, Verse 3; a,
verse 5; ais wanting; a, verse 6; I, verses 7, 8, 9, 10; CG, verse 11; С,
verse 13; ὄ, verse 15; é, verse 17; é, verse 18. é, 10:1; i, verse 5;
ἤ, Verse 8; d, ή, 6, © are wanting; -, verse 12, is repeated from
9:19 in order to call our attention to the same words of the same
prayer; Tis found in verse 14; U, twice in verse 15; ή, in verse 17.

We must believe that the Acrostic is purposely incomplete, but
what the design and the lesson may be must be left to the patient
students of God’s word. It may be that it is to correspond with these
“times of trouble,” for they also will be broken up and incomplete.
Psa. 25:1-22 -Here again the Acrostic is designedly irregular, proving
its genuineness rather than suggesting its corruption.

This design is shown by the fact that, in Psa. 34:1-22, the same
letter | is omitted, and the same letter Gis duplicated by being added
for the last verse. Psa. 25:22; Psa. 34:22 commence with the same
word 6aa (pahdah), “redeem,” and both verses thus marked contain
a similar sentiment: Psa. 25:22, “Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his
troubles”: and 34:22, “The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants.”
These two verses are thus made to stand out by themselves.

The Acrostic letters are thus distributed:-, verses 1 and 2; a,
verse 2 (second word); a, verse 3; a, verse 4; a, verse 5; | omitted;
verse 6; ς, verse 7; ὄ, verse 8; é, verse 9; 6 verse 10; é, verse 11;
i, verse 12; ᾱ, verse 13; ή, verse 14; n, verse 15; 6, verse 16; 6,
verse 17; - Omitted i, verse 18, 19; U, verse 20: ή, verse 21;
(repeated), verse 22.

Psa. 24:1-10 -Here, as in Psa. 25:1-22, the sixth letter | is omitted, the
alphabet ending at verse 21; and the 6 repeated thus puts verse 22
outside the alphabetical series.

Thus far the two Psalms (25 and 24) are framed on the same
model.

In this Psalm, with the above exception, there is one letter left for
each verse in its order.
Psa. 37:1-40 -Here the series is complete. The ἤ being masked
behind the preposition ё (in the word énléi, for ever, verse 28), and
the ή behind the conjunction | “put,” in verse 39.

Every letter has two verses of two lines each, except three: a,
verse 7; 6 verse 20, and -, verse 34, which have but one verse of
three lines each.* [Note: It is noteworthy that the first of these (y)
occurs seven verses from the beginning; the last, seven verses from
the end; while the middle letter (A) is the middle of the whole Psalm.]

The Acrostic is as follows:-I° commences verse 1; a, verse 3; 8,
verse 5; a, verse 7; a, verse 8; I, verse 10; CG, verse 12; ο, verse 14;
ὄ, verse 16; é, verse 18; δ, verse 20; é, verse 21; i, verse 23; d,
verse 25; ή, verse 27; ἔῆ, verse 28, third line (“they are preserved
for ever’); 6, verse 30; 6, verse 32; -, verse 34; ἴ, verse 35; U, 37;
lu, 1 [Note: Ginsburg’s Hebrew Bible omits the Vau (lJ verse 39.
Psa. 111:1-10 -The acrostic here is perfect. The Psalm has twenty-two
lines, which commence successively with the twenty-two letters of the
Hebrew alphabet.
Psa. 112:1-10 is formed on precisely the same model, and the two
Psalms form a pair, Psa. 111:1-10 being occupied with Jehovah and
Psa. 112:1-10 with the man that feareth Jehovah. They may be thus
compared-the letters marking the Correspondence (q.v. [Note: Which
see] ).
Psa. 111:1-10
οχι. a 1-3-1 His righteousness for ever.
b 4-8.-C Gracious and full of compassion; ever mindful
of His covenant.
ο 9, 10-0 His covenant and praise for ever.
Psa. 112:1-10
1128. 1-3.-[ His righteousness for ever.
Ь — 4-8.-С Gracious and full of compassion; in everlasting
remembrance.
ο 9, 10-0 His exaltation for ever.
Psa. 119:1-176 -This Acrostic Psalm differs from every other. It
consists of 176 verses, divided into 22 groups of eight verses each: (8
X 22 = 176). The eight verses of each group begin with the same
letter. For example: the first eight verses each begin with Aleph Г (А),
the second eight with Beth a (B); and so on through the whole Psalm.

It is very difficult to preserve this in a translation, and impossible
where the letters of one language are not the same either in power or
number or order.

It so happens, however, that the ninth portion (verses 65-72), in
which each verse begins with Teth ё (T), begins also with T in the
Authorized Version in all the verses except two (67 and 71). These
can be easily made to begin with T also, by changing the word
“Before” in verse 67 to Till; and the words “It is” in verse 71 to ’Tis.
Then it will exactly correspond to the Hebrew original.

Attempts have been made to render other portions in a similar
manner, but with little success. What comes naturally in an Original
Text, must be somewhat forced in translating it into another language.
We offer the following as an example:-

A.
Ah! the happinesses of the perfect in the way,
Such as walk in the law of Jehovah.
Ah! the happinesses of the keepers of His testimonies,
Who seek Him with their whole heart.
Assuredly they have not worked iniquity:
In His ways they ever walked.
As to Thy commandments-Thou hast commanded us,
That we should diligently keep them.
Ah! Lord, that my ways were prepared
To keep Thy statutes.
Ashamed, then, | shall never be,
While | have respect unto all Thy commandments.
All my heart shall praise Thee in uprightness,
While | learn the judgments of Thy righteousness.
All Thy statutes also | will keep:
Leave me not utterly.
B.
By what means shall a young man cleanse his way?
By taking heed thereto according to Thy word.
By every means my heart hath sought Thee:
Let me not err from Thy commandments.
Besides, | have laid up Thy word in my heart,
That | might not sin against Thee.
Blessed art Thou, O Jehovah,
Teach me Thy statutes.
By my lips have | recounted
All the judgments of Thy mouth.
By walking in Thy Mandate’s way,
| found joy beyond all wealth.
By Thy precepts shall | guide my musings,
And shall pore o’er Thy paths,
By thy statutes shall | be delighted;
Thy word | shall not forget.
Psa. 145:1-21 -Here the Acrostic is perfect, with the exception of the
letter Nun, d (N), which comes between verses 13 and 14.

It has evidently dropped out through the carelessness of some
scribe; for it must have been in the manuscripts from which the
Septuagint, Vulgate, Syriac, Arabic and Zthiopic Versions were made,
as they contain the verse. One Hebrew ms. has been found by Dr.
Ginsburg containing the verse; which reads, “The Lord is faithful in all
His words, and holy in all His works.”

Moreover, it falls in with the structure of the Psalm, for the
member, in which verse nun (d) occurs, consists of verses 13-20 and
is as follows:-

а 13. “Thou,” second person.

Ь — 14. “He,” third person.
а 15, 16. “Thou,” second person.
Ь 17-20. “He,” third person.
The members b and b thus commence with similar words.
The Psalm is “David's Psalm of praise.” It is the only Psalm that is
dignified by this title. It is a special Psalm, therefore, and the Acrostic
marks it as such, there being exactly 22 verses, one letter for each
verse, and each verse consisting of two lines.

The structure (see under Correspondence) shows that it consists
of seven members, arranged alternately, the subject of the first being
Praise promised, and that of the second, Praise offered in fulfilment of
that promise.

It is as follows:-

Psa. 145:1-21
А1 1, 2. Praise promised (first person) for Jehovah Himself.
B1 3. Praise offered (third person) to Jehovah.
A2 4-7. Praise promised (first and third persons alternately) for
Jehovah's works.
B2 8, 9. Praise offered (third person) for Jehovah's works.
A3 10-12. Praise promised (third person only) for Jehovah’s
kingdom.
B3 13-20. Praise offered (third person) for Jehovah’s kingdom.
A4 21. Praise promised (first and third persons) (eare, shall
bless, as in verse 10).
Pro. 31:10-31 is a perfect alphabetical Acrostic, marking and calling
our attention to this song in praise of a virtuous woman. Офаепет
calls it “a golden A B C for women.” It follows here, the words of a
faithful mother. The following is the structure of the passage:-
Α 10. The woman and her worth.
B1 11, 12. Her husband.
C 13-22. Her work.
B2 23. Her husband.
C 24-27. Her work.
B3 28, 29. Her children and her husband.
Α 30, 31. The woman and her worth.
Like Psa. 145:1-21 it consists of twenty-two verses, and each
verse contains two lines.
Lam. 1:1-22 is an acrostic chapter. It consists of 22 verses, each of
which commences with a successive letter of the alphabet, and each
consists of three lines, except verse 7 (ό, Zayin) which contains four
lines.
Lam. 2:1-22 is the same, except that in this case it is verse 19 (-,
Koph) which contains four lines. Й and ὃ (verses 16 and 17) are
transposed.
Lam. 3:1-66 is different. It consists of 66 verses; the first three each
commencing with f(A); the second three each commencing with

(B), and so on. Here, also as in chap. 2, Й and ὃ (verses 46-48
and 49-51) are transposed.
Lam. 4:1-22 -Here, there are 22 verses, each verse commencing
successively with the letters of the alphabet, and consisting of two
lines. Here, also as in chaps. 2 and 3, the Й апа ὃ (verses 16 and 17)
are designedly transposed.

These are all the Alphabetical Acrostics.

There are, however, others, to which our attention is called by the
Massorah, as well as by their being written in larger characters in
certain Manuscripts.

In these cases the Acrostic letters spell certain words. But these
are no more accidental than those which are alphabetical. Other
acrostics have been found; but, as they are without Massoretic or
Manuscript authority (and, therefore, probably are undesigned) we do
not notice them.

Psa. 96:11.-The Massorah has a rubric calling attention to the name
of Jehovah here in a complete sentence of four words:-* [Note:
Reading the English words backwards.]

ёшс! Auiei Ιά8ό aris
earth-the glad-be-let-and heavens-the rejoice-Let.

“Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad” (lit., “Let-rejoice
the-heavens and-let-be-glad the-earth’).

This is the great truth and the grand climax of God’s purposes,
which the Psalms as a whole set forth and declare. Especially so in
this fourth book of the Psalms, which reveals those purposes in
relation to the earth.

Psa. 96:1-13 is a call to “all the earth” (verse 1) to sing the “new
song,” and Psa. 97:1-12 is, or rather will yet be, the earth’s glad
answer to that call.* [Note: See A Key to the Psalms.]

Esther.-In the Book of Esther four times the name of Jehovah occurs
in the form of an Acrostic.t [Note: See a separate pamphlet on this
subject by the same author and publisher, The Name of Jehovah in
the Book of Esther.]

Jehovah had declared (Deu. 31:16-18) that if His people forsook
Him He would hide His face from them. Here this threatening was
fulfilled. But, though He was hidden from them, He was present,
working for them, to deliver them. Hence the outward form of the book
is in harmony with the circumstances of the people: Jehovah was not
with them, but He was for them; and therefore, though His name does
not occur so that it may be sounded and pronounced by the voice, it
appears, so that it may be visible to the opened eyes.
Further, the four Acrostics are all different from each other.
The First
occurs in 1:20. It is formed by the initial letters, for the event was
initial. It is formed by spelling the word backwards, for Jehovah was
overruling and turning back the wisdom of man. The four Hebrew
words are
авг les Gavi Cua
ie., “All the wives shall give,” or exhibiting a similar Acrostic in
English-
“Due Respect Our Ladies”
shall give to their husbands, etc.”
This counsel resulted in bringing Esther to the throne; so that,
when Haman’s plot had been made, it might be thwarted (4:14).
The Second
(5:4) is formed, as before, by the initial letters; for Jehovah was
initiating His plans: but it is spelt forwards (as in our common form of
Acrostics), for Jehovah was ruling rather than overruling. The four
Hebrew words are-
Cait aida laia а!
“Let the King and Haman come this day,” or,
“Let Our Royal Dinner

be graced this day by the King and Haman.” The name of Jehovah
appears in the invitation; for He was to be there in order to bring the
counsels of man to nought and” take the wise in their own craftiness.”

Nothing happens at the dinner beyond an invitation to Haman to
dine at the royal table the next day. “Then went Haman forth that day
joyful and with a glad heart” (5:9). Yes, “that day,” for it was his last!

The Third Acrostic
(5:13) is the beginning of the end. Hence it is formed by the final
letters, for the end was approaching. It is read backwards, for the Lord
was turning back all the proud purposes of Haman. Haman goes
home to his wife and says:

са réaal via ee
“This availeth me nothing,” or “Yet am |

saD, foR nO avail.

is all this to me.”

This sadness was a precursor of, and foreboded, his coming
execution. Haman dines on the morrow with the king and queen; and
events soon reached their climax; which comes in

The Fourth Acrostic
(7:7). It is again in the final letters, for Haman’s end had come. It is
spelt forwards; for Jehovah was ruling, and had determined the
event:-
вё 66ua (δ6ἱ ата

Haman saw “that evil was determined against him,” or, “For he

saw that there was
eviL tO feaR determineD
against him by the King.”

There was indeed evil to fear: for that evil had been determined
not by King Ahasuerus, but by Jehovah: and the evil came swiftly
upon him, for he was at once taken out and hanged.

Thus these four Acrostics at once conceal and reveal the Name of
Jehovah, and emphasize the four pivots on which the whole history
turns.

Est. 7:5.-This is another Acrostic for which there is Massoretic
authority, the letters being written in larger characters in certain MSS

It is that name by which God revealed himself to Moses and to
Israel, the “I AM,” who had come down to deliver them. He who came
down to deliver them in Egypt now comes down to deliver them in
Persia: and, though He was not revealed, nor His name written, yet
He has caused it to be emblazoned on the pages of the history.
When Ahasuerus learned from Esther, that “the Jews’ enemy” had
laid his plot to destroy the whole nation, he cries out in his ignorance,
“Who is he, and where is he
that durst presume in his heart to do so?” He uses the words of which
the final letters spell the name EHJHE (pronounced E-he-yhe both
backwards and forwards).
all са г© са аГ
EHEYEH knew who Haman was and where he was. He who is the
great “I am,” sees the end from the beginning; and both rules and
over-rules all events for the accomplishment of His purposes, and for
the deliverance of His People. (See Exo. 2:23-25; Exo. 3:14-15).
Acrostics, like many other figures, occur only in the Originals, and
cannot be reproduced in a translation.
It is possible also for figures to occur in a translation which are not
in the Hebrew or Greek! In such cases they are, of course, either
accidental or designed. In either case they are of no value or weight.
An Acrostic can be made, for example, in the English of Joh. 3:16,
which is accidental. But as it may be useful to some in teaching
others, we note it here-

Joh. 3:16

God so loved the world, that he gave his

Only begotten

Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not

Perish, but have

Everlasting

Life.

This verse contains the good news of the Gospel, which, by a
singular coincidence, is the very word which may thus be written as an
Acrostic.

2. Of the Same Word
(a) In the Same Sense
There are no less than twelve ways in which the same word may be
repeated in the same sense in the same sentence. The first is called
Epizeuxis: or, Duplication
The Repetition of the Same Word in the Same Sense
When the word is repeated in close and immediate succession, no
other word or words coming between, it is called GEMINATIO,
pronounced Gem-i-ner-tio, which means a doubling, duplication, a re-
doubling. № is also called ITERATIO  (lér-er-e-ti-o), iteration;
CONDUPLICATIO (con-dbi-pli-car-tio), conduplication, or full doubling.
When the words do not immediately succeed each other, but are
separated by one or more intervening words, the figure is then called
EPIZEUXIS, pronounced Ер --геих -is. It is the Greek word ἐπήζευξις,
from ἐτῆ (epi), upon, and ζεύγνυμµί (zeugnumi), to yoke, or join closely
together. The intervening words thus form the yoke which joins the
repeated words.

The Latins give this figure the name of SUBJUNCTIO (Subjunc-
tio), which is derived from the Greek and has exactly the same
meaning, subjoining (from jugum, a yoke).

We may give the figure the English name of “Duplication,”
“Gemination,” “Iteration,” or “Repetition.”

It is a common and powerful way of emphasizing a particular word,
by thus marking it and calling attention to it.

In writing, one might accomplish this by putting the word in larger
letters, or by underlining it two or three times. In speaking, it is easy to
mark it by expressing it with increased emphasis or vehemence.

How important for us to notice, in the Scriptures, the words and
expressions which the Holy Spirit has thus marked and emphasized in
order to impress us with their importance!
Gen. 6:17.-“And, behold, I, even, I, do bring a flood of waters upon
the earth.”
Gen. 7:19.-“And the waters prevailed exceedingly.”

Here, as in other passages, the doubled adverb is used for a
superlative. ira ira (тефа, тефа), greatly, greatly. We have the
same words in 17:2, “And | will multiply thee exceedingly (тефа,
тефа). So also verse 6, exceeding; and verse 20, exceedingly;
30:43, “And the man increased exceedingly (тефа, тефа)”; Exo.
1:7, “Waxed exceeding”; Num. 14:7, “It is an exceeding (тефа,
ππεφα)) good land”; 1К!. 7:47, “Because they were exceeding (тефа,
тефа) many”; 2Ki. 10:4, “But they were exceedingly (тефа, тефа)
afraid”; Eze. 9:9, “And Judah is exceeding (тефа, тефа) great”;
16:13, “And thou wast exceeding (med, тефа) beautiful’; 37:10,
“An exceeding (тефа, meqbd) great army.”

Gen. 22:11.-“And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven,
and said, Abraham, Abraham.”

This is the first occurrence of this figure, used of names. There are
ten such in the Scriptures (the number ten completing the cycle of
Divine order).* [Note: See Number in Scripture, by the same author
and publisher.]
Seven of these are used by God to man (four of which are in the
Old Testament, and three in the New), the other three being used
under other circumstances. When thus used, the figure calls special
attention to the occasion or to the person, and to some solemn
moment of importance in the action, or of significance in the words.

Used by God to men. (7)
Old Test. (4)

1. Abraham, Abraham (Gen. 22:11).

2. Jacob, Jacob (Gen. 46:2).

3. Moses, Moses (Exo. 3:4).

4. Samuel, Samuel (1Sa. 3:10).

New Test. (3)
5. Martha, Martha (Luk. 10:41).
6. Simon, Simont [Note: “Satan hath desired to have you (Usd,
plural) that he may sift you (Usd, plural) as wheat: but | have
prayed for thee (10 singular) that thy faith fail not.”
Satan “sifts” to get rid of the wheat! Christ “fans” to get rid of the
chaff (Mat. 3:12).] (Luk. 22:31).
7. Saul, Saul (Act. 9:4).
Used under other circumstances.} [Note: Each of these three
examples is unique. In No. 8 it is the name of the Lord used by
man. In No. 9 it is used of God's city and people by Christ. In
No. 10 it is used of God by Christ.] (3)
8. Lord, Lord (Mat. 7:21-22. Luk. 6:46; Luk. 13:25).
9. Jerusalem, Jerusalem (Mat. 23:37. Luk. 13:34).
10. Eloi, Eloi (Mar. 15:34. Mat. 27:46. Psa. 22:1).
It is to be noted that in raising the dead the Lord Jesus never used
this figure! As much as to say it needed no emphasis whatever to
make the dead hear His voice (see Mar. 5:41).

The disciples may cry, “Master, Master, we perish!” (Luk. 8:24),
but He calmly rebukes the winds and the waves.

Gen. 25:30.-“And Esau said to Jacob, “Feed me, | pray thee, with that
same red pottage.”

The Hebrew having no superlative, doubles the adjective (see
under /diom), afai arai (hah-ahdom, hah-ahdom), red, red, ie.,
this very red [food]; or, this deliciously red food.

Exo. 2:12.-“And he looked this way and that way.”

Here the Hebrew GA [65 (ΚΦΗ ναΗΚΦΗ), this and this, is well
translated, The repetition emphasizes the fact that he looked in every
direction. See also Jos. 8:20, i.e., in any direction. 2Ki. 2:8. Also Jos.
8:33, 1Са ПСа (mizzeh oomizzeh), i-e., on all sides. 1Ki. 2:36, “Go
not forth thence any-whither” fda lfda (ahneh vah-ah-nah), this
and this. 2Ki. 4:35, see margin.
Exo. 4:16.-“And he shall be, even he shall be to thee instead of a
mouth:” i.e., he shall surely be, etc.
Exo. 15:16.-“Till thy people pass over, О Lord, till the people pass
over, which thou hast purchased:” i.e., till thy people have completely
passed over and are safe on the other side.
Exo. 23:30.-“By little and little | will drive them out from before thee,”
IAS IAS (me-at, me-at), “little, little, | will drive, etc.:” ie., | will drive
them out by very slow degrees. There s no “by” or “and” in the Hebrew
of this passage. These words should be in italics. The figure is
beautifully rendered in English idiom, where two adverbs are used to
express the superlative.
Exo. 28:34.-“A golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a
pomegranate upon the hem of the robe round about:” /.е., alternately.
Exo. 34:6.-“And the Lord passed by before him, and proclaimed,
JEHOVAH, JEHOVAH.”

Here, if we were to translate the figure idiomatically, it means that
He proclaimed the wonderful name, Jehovah! (which He did in the
sixth and seventh verses).
Lev. 6:12 (5).-“And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning.”
aa-f aa-t (babbopker, babbabker), morning, morning: i.e., every
morning, regularly, and without intermission.

Lev. 24:8.-“Every sabbath he shall set it in order before the Lord
continually.”

Hebrew aéli Δὐάή aéli auau (Веуфт hashabbath beyom

hashabbath), on-the-day-of the-Sabbath, on-the-day-of the-
Sabbath: i.e., every Sabbath, with emphasis on the word “every,” i.e.,
every Sabbath without fail.
Num. 17:12-13 (27, 28).-After Aaron’s rod had been brought forth, the
people were frightened and cried to Moses, “Behold, we die, we
perish, we all perish. Whosoever cometh near, cometh near unto
the tabernacle of the Lord shall die: shall we be consumed with
dying?”

Here the figure is a-Fa a-fa (hakkahrev hakkahrev), cometh
near, cometh near. It is idiomatically translated by the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , but
literally by the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

There is also the repetition of the word faadl ‘(ahvadnoo), “we
perish, we all perish.”

Deu. 28:43.-Here the figure is really translated idiomatically, and not
literally. “The stranger that is within thee shall get up above thee very
high,” ie. INGA TAGA (mahalah, mahalah), high, high; “and thou
shalt come down very low” ({6., 168 iéa (mattah, mattah), low,
low).
Thus the figure emphasizes the depth of the misery into which
Israel should be brought if they would not hearken to the voice of
Jehovah (verse 15).

Jdg. 5:22.-

“Then did the horsehoofs stamp:

By reason of the pransings, the pransings of his mighty

ones.”

таайи AaarlU (middaharoth daharoth), ie. the violent
pransings, if translated idiomatically. See under /diom.
1Sa. 2:3.-‘Talk no more exceeding proudly.”

aaaa aaaa (gevohah, gevohah), proudly, proudly, ie.,
arrogantly or haughtily.

Here the repeated adjective is idiomatically translated as a
superlative.
2Sa. 7:5.-“Go and tell my servant David (Heb., to my servant, to
David), Thus saith the Lord, Shalt thou build, me a house for me to
dwell in?”
Here there is great emphasis to be placed on the repeated
pronoun, “me,” in order to rebuke the popular and universal thought of
the natural heart, which ever says, “See now, | dwell in a house of
cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains.”
2Sa. 18:33.-“O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! Would
God | had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son!”

Here the figure emphasizes the vehemence of David's grief.
2Ki. 4:19.-"And he said unto his father, My head, my head.” (//UG
rrué, roshee, roshee.)

How eloquent: and what a volume is contained in this simple
figure, so naturally used by the child; as an English child would say,
“My poor head.”
2Ch. 4:3.-“Compassing the sea round about.” naéa naéa
(sahveev, sahveev), around, around: i.e., completely round, all
around. The same repetition is used, to express complete
surrounding, in Eze. 37:2; Eze. 40:5; Eze. 40:14; Eze. 40:16 (twice),
17, 25, 29, 30, 33, 36, 43; 41:5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 16 (the second
“round about”), 17, 19; 42:15, 20; 43:12. In all these descriptions of
the new and future Temple, the repetition of naéa naéa (sahveev,
sahveev) emphasizes the completeness of the measurements.

Psa. 22:1.-"My God, my God (/G6 [66, Elee, Elee), why hast thou
forsaken me?”

Who can tell the depth of meaning and of feeling, which this figure
here reveals? It is thus impressed upon us, because it cannot be
expressed by words. See Mar. 15:34.

Psa. 67:6-7 (7, 8).-

“God shall bless us,

God shall bless us:”
i.e., God shall really and truly bless us in very deed.
Psa. 77:16 (17).-

“The waters saw thee, O God,

The waters saw thee.”

(See under Prosopopoeia.) Thus emphatically describing Exo.
14:1-31
Psa. 96:13.-
“For He cometh, for He cometh:”

i.e., for He shall surely come.
Psa. 118:11.-Twice “They compassed me about’; and in verses 15
and 16, we have three times “The right hand of the Lord.”
Psa. 137:7.-“Remember, О Lord, the children of Edom in the day of
Jerusalem; who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof,”
ie, nrl-nrl ‘(ahroo, ahroo), “Down-with-it, down-with-it,” or we might
render the figure, utterly overthrow it.
Pro. 20:14.-“It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer: but when he is
gone his way, then he boasteth.”

Heb. is m im (ra, ra), i.e., “very bad,” or “worth nothing.” What a
picture of Eastern bargaining!
Ecc. 3:18.-Lit., | said in my heart respecting the estate of the sons of
men that ... they, even they are like beasts.”

Here the figure of Pleonasm (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) first
emphasizes the word “men,” and then the Epizeuxis again increases
that emphasis.
Ecc. 7:24.-“That which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find it
out?”

hi- hi- (ahmok, ahmok), deep, deep: i.e., as it is translated,
“exceeding deep.”
Isa. 6:3.-The holiness of Jehovah is emphasized beyond measure,
and the three persons in one God are indicated by the thrice repeated
“Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts.” Here the highest degree of
holiness is ascribed to Jehovah.

Isa. 21:9.-“Babylon is fallen, is fallen’: to emphasize the certainty
and the greatness of the fall of that great city, and the completeness of
its final overthrow. See also Rev. 18:2.

Isa. 26:3.-“Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace.”

Here the figure is idiomatically translated. The Hebrew reads (see
margin) uéli uéli (shalom, shalom), peace, peace, thus
emphasizing the word and denoting much peace, great peace; or, as
in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , “perfect peace.” In 57:19 and Jer. 6:14 it is not thus
translated.

Professor Driver mentions this duplication of words as being a
post-Isaian feature of literary style (/ntroduction to the Literature of the
Old Testament, pp. 233, 234). He says, “The literary style of chapters
40-56 is very different from that of Isaiah”: one of the “literary features”
being the repetition of words. It is remarkable, as being characteristic
of the wisdom and acumen assumed by the higher critics, that though
Professor Driver mentions the repetition of uéli Uéli, peace, peace,
in Isa. 57:19, he does not mention the very same repetition in 26:3:
which is an evidence of the very unity of the two parts of Isaiah which
he is seeking to disprove.* [Note: The same applies to other
arguments: e.g., Dr. Driver says (p.227) that certain words “occurring
in chapters 40-66. point to a later period of language than Isaiah’s age
... A remarkable instance is afforded by 65:25 ... where écal, the
common Hebrew word for together, is replaced by éf¢a, an
expression modelled upon the Aramaic écar, and occurring besides
only in the latest books of the Old Testament.” But Professor Driver
does not mention the fact that the word occurs in the earlier books of
the Bible: so early indeed as Gen. 3:22; Gen. 49:16. 1Sa. 17:36, and
elsewhere. True, in these passages it is in the construct state: but that
makes no difference so far as the argument is concerned. Moreover,
as this very word écal occurs in chap. 1:28, 31, and 11:6, 7, as well
as in 66:17, it is an argument against Dr. Driver's division of Isaiah into
two halves.]

Isa. 28:10.-This is probably the ironical language of the “scornful men”
(verse 14), introduced by the Ellipsis of verse 9: “Whom [say they]
shall he teach knowledge’?... for [it is] precept upon precept; precept
upon precept; line upon line; line upon line; here a little, and there
a little.” And, then, the Prophet retorts: “For (or Yea, verily) with
stammering lips (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] , stammerings of lips) and
another tongue will he speak (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] , he hath
spoken) to this people.”

In the English the Epizeuxis is not perfect, because the word
“upon” comes between, but in the Hebrew the words follow each other
closely.

6! 66] δἱ 6] -| ὅ-| -ἰ 6-1

cneér bi cher of
Le., “For it is tzav latzav; tzav latzav; kav lakav, kav lakav; z3hr shehm,
zshr shehm.”

See also verse 13.

Isa. 40:1.-“Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God.” Here
the Epizeuxis consists of one word in the Hebrew, dcil- dcil-
(nachmoo, nachmoo): and calls our attention to the passage; while it
emphasizes the plenitude of that comfort wherewith Jehovah has
determined to comfort His People Israel at no distant date.
Isa. 51:1-23.-In this Scripture we have three calls emphasized by this
figure.
А1 51:9-11. A call to the arm of Jehovah:-“Awake, awake, put on
strength, O arm of the Lord.”
B1 12-16. Followed by comfort.
A2 17-20. A call to Jerusalem:-“Awake, awake, stand up, O
Jerusalem.”
B2 21-23. Followed by comfort.
A3 52:1, 2. A call to Zion:-“Awake, awake, put on strength, O
Zion.”
B3 3-12. Followed by comfort.
Isa. 57:19.-“I create the fruit of the lips:-Peace, peace to him that is
far off and to him that is near,” etc.: {6., great peace, perfect peace as
in 26:3 (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]).
Jer. 4:19.-“My bowels, my bowels!” to emphasize the great distress
experienced.
Jer. 6:14.-“They have healed also the hurt of the daughter* [Note:
These words are supplied, apparently from chap. 8:11, 21.] of my
people slightly, saying Peace, peace; when there is no peace.” Here
the figure contrasts with the fact that there was no peace for
Jerusalem the fact that her false prophets continually promised plenty
of peace, much peace.
Jer. 22:29.-“O earth, earth, earth, hear the word of the Lord.”
Eze. 21:9-13 (Hebrews 14-18).-“A sword, a sword is sharpened, and
also furbished.”

This is to call our attention to “the sword of the Lord,” viz., Babylon,
and to show that His sword is a sword for war, and not a sword worn
for honour. This is the key to this difficult passage. That there are
difficulties is seen the moment we observe the italics, note the
marginal alternatives, and consult the commentators!

Jehovah’s sword was not like the sword of His son Judah, not like
his “rod” or “sceptre” (verse 10), which was merely for honour, and
was no use against a tree. But this sword (verse 10) “contemneth the
rod (or sceptre) of my son, as [it despiseth] every tree (or wood).”
Verse 12 should be, “Cry and howl, son of man: for it sha// be upon my
people, it shall be upon all the princes of Israel: my people shall be
delivered to the sword: smite therefore upon thy thigh” (which was the
symbol of fear in man, as beating the breast was in woman). Verse 13.
“Because it was proved, and what? (i.e., what will happen? what will
be the result?) if the sword shall not despise the wood, saith the Lord!
It will not be, saith Adonai Jehovah!” (i.e., it will not despise it! it will
destroy it!)

Thus we have the sword of Jehovah emphasized: and the
structure of these verses explains their meaning.
А 8-10. The sword of Jehovah (Babylon). Its sharpness and
brightness.
В — -10. Its contempt for the rod or sceptre of His son Judah.

А 11, 12. The sword of Jehovah. Its destroying power.

В 19. Its contempt for the wooden rod or sceptre of Judah.

The point is that the sword of the Lord is a sword of war, not of
honour; and its power is so great that the sceptre of Judah (which was
of wood) will not withstand it.

Eze. 21:27.-‘I will overturn, overturn, overturn it; and it shall be no
more until he come whose right it is; and | will give it him”: {98., | will
completely and thoroughly overturn it.

The threefold Epizeuxis emphasizes the completeness of the
overthrow of the throne of David; hence, by implication, the certainty
of the promised fulfilment of the prophecy that He who is David’s Son
and David’s Lord, shall surely reign upon that same throne according
to Luk. 1:32-33, and many other Scriptures.

Eze. 22:2.-“Wilt thou judge, wilt thou judge?”: i.e., Wilt thou really
and truly judge? See under Heterosis.

Eze. 33:11.-“Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways.”

Eze. 34:11.-“Behold, I, even I, will both search my sheep and seek
them out.”
And verse 20: “Behold I, even, I, will judge between the fat cattle
and between the lean cattle.”
Thus does Adonai Jehovah emphasize what He will do in
consequence of the unfaithfulness of the shepherds, who fed not His
flock, but fed themselves. (See under Ellipsis, page 114).

Eze. 34:17.-‘I judge between cattle and cattle.” (da 6a)

For the emphasis in this passage, see the notes on it under the
figure of Ellipsis (page 40).

Dan. 5:11.-“Whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, /
say, thy father, made master of the magicians”: i.e., thy father the
great and mighty king Nebuchadnezzar.

Dan. 10:19.-“Be strong, yea, be strong:” i.e., be very strong.

Zep. 1:14.-“The great day of the Lord is near, is near, and hasteth
greatly”: /.e., is very near.

Mat. 5:37.-“But let your communication (R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] , speech) be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is
more than these cometh of evil.”

Here the figure emphasizes the fact, not that we are forbidden to
say, “Yea” or “nay” twice; but that we are merely to say, “Yes” or “no,”
and not to indulge in vehement asseverations and oaths; “for
whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.”

Mat. 23:37.-“O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets,”
etc.: emphasizing the pathetic appeal by the exceeding guilt of the city
in killing the prophets of Jehovah.

Luk. 23:21.-“Crucify him, crucify him,” emphasizing the vehemence
of the cry, and the determination of the priest-led people.

Joh. 1:51.-“Verily, verily, | say unto you.” ἁμὴν, ἁμήν (ameen
ameen). Twenty-five solemn sayings of the Lord Jesus are thus
emphatically marked in John’s Gospel: viz., 1:51; 3:3, 5, 11; 5:19, 24,
25; 6:26, 32, 47, 53; 8:34, 51, 58; 10:1, 7; 12:24; 13:16, 20, 21, 38;
14:12; 16:20, 23; 21:18. It might prove a useful study to trace the
sequence of truth in these successive statements.

Apart from the Repetition, which occurs only in the fourth Gospel,
there is something to be learnt from the number of times the word
occurs.* [Note: See Number in Scripture, by the same author and
publisher.]

Heb. 10:37.-“Yet a little while,” Lit., how little, how little.” Greek: ἔτι
yap μικρὸν ὅσον ὅσον (eti gar mikron hoson hoson).

Eph. 3:9.-Lit. “And to enlighten all [as to] what [is] the dispensation of
the Mystery which has been hidden away, away, from the ages in [or
by] God.” Showing the completeness with which the secret was hidden
in former times. Compare Rom. 16:25, and Col. 1:26.
Anaphora; or, Like Sentence-Beginnings
The Repetition of the same Word at the beginning of successive
Sentences

A-naph’-o-ra, from two Greek words, dvd (ana), again, and φέρω
(pherdb), to bring or carry. It means a carrying back, reference, or
repeating over again.

This figure is also sometimes called EPANAPHORA: which is the
same word with ἐπή (epi), upon, prefixed. In Latin it is called RELATIO.

This figure is so-called because it is the repeating of the same
word at the beginning of successive clauses: thus adding weight and
emphasis to statements and arguments by calling special attention to
them.

Anaphora differs from Epibole (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). In the
case of Epibole several words are repeated, consisting of a sentence
or phrase; whereas, in Anaphora only one word is thus repeated.
Scripture abounds with this figure, which adds great importance to

many of its solemn statements. We give a few examples:-
Deu. 28:3-6.-

“Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and

blessed shalt thou be in the field:

blessed shall be the fruit of the body,

and* [Note: See Polysyndeton.] the fruit of thy ground,

and the fruit of thy cattle,

the increase of thy kine,
and the flocks of thy sheep.
blessed shall be thy basket and thy store,
blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in,
blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out.”
See the same figure in verses 16-19 with the word “cursed”
repeated at the beginning of successive sentences.
2Sa. 23:5.-According to the Hebrew, each line begins with the word
éé (kee), For.
“For is not my house thus with God?
For He hath made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered
in all things and sure,
For this is all my salvation, and all my desire.
For shall He not make it to prosper?”
These four lines are in the form of an introversion:-
a Question.
Ь — Answer and Reason.
Ь — Answer and Reason.
a Question.
In a and a the question is concerning David's house; while in b and
b the subject is Jehovah’s covenant. See under Correspondence.
Psa. 3:1-2 (2, 3).-
“Many are they that rise up against me,
Many there be which say of my soul,” etc.
Psa. 94:3-4.-“How long” In verse 4 it should be repeated by Ellipsis
and put in italics twice. In the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] it is thus put only once; in the
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] not at all, the figure not being
seen.
Psa. 115:12-13.-
“He will bless us.
He will bless the house of Israel.
He will bless the house of Aaron.
He will bless them that fear the Lord.”
This figure stands here in immediate contrast with the figure of
Epistrophe (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) in verses 9-11, where the same
phrase ends successive clauses.

See also in the Songs of Degrees, Psa. 121:7-8; Psa. 122:6-7;
Psa. 123:2-3; Psa. 124:1-2; Psa. 3:1-8; Psa. 4:1-8; Psa. 5:1-12; Psa.
126:2; Psa. 127:1; Psa. 128:5-6; Psa. 129:1-2.

Psa. 148:1-4.-“Praise” is seven times repeated at the beginning of
successive sentences. So also in the whole of Psa. 150:1-6
Isa. 51:1; Isa. 51:4; Isa. 51:7.-Three times we have the Divine call
“Hearken unto me.”
Jer. 1:18.-“Behold, | have made thee this day a defenced city,

and an iron pillar,

and brazen walls-

against the whole land,

against the kings of Judah,

against the princes thereof,
against the priests thereof, and
against the people of the land.”

The figure, here, emphasizes the fact that the prophet in being
God’s spokesman was recognised as the “man of God,”* [Note: See
The Man of God, by the same author and publisher; price one penny.]
but also (and therefore) as necessarily “against” man. For, inasmuch
as man’s thoughts and man’s ways are always the opposite of 6ος,
he who is for God cannot help being opposed to man.

Jer. 4:23-26.-We have “I beheld” four times repeated; to enchance
the solemnity of the desolation of Jehovah’s judgments.

Jer. 5:17.-“They shall eat up” is three times repeated; to emphasize
the complete devouring of the land by the enemy.

Jer. 50:35-36.-“A sword” is four times repeated; to emphasize the
slaughter in the destruction of Babylon.

Jer. 51:20-23.-Ten times we have the words “with thee” repeated to
amplify the statement in verse 20. “Thou art my battle ax,” spoken of
Israel.

Hos. 3:4.-“For the children of Israel shall abide many days
without a king,
and without a prince,
and without a sacrifice,
and without an image,
and without an ephod,
and without teraphim.”
Here there is something more than a simple Polysyndeton (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ), as another word is joined with the conjunction.
The employment of this figure emphasizes the present desolation
of Israel.
Mic. 5:9-13.-“I will cut off’ is repeated four times; to amplify and
extend the prophecy in verse 9.
Mic. 7:11-12.-Here we have “In that day” repeated to emphasize the
time; and “from” to amplify the places whence they shall come.
Zep. 1:2-3.-1 will consume,” three times repeated, indicates the
solemnity of the threatening and the certainty of its execution.
Mat. 5:3-11.-The word “Blessed” nine times repeated.
Mat. 5:22.-
“Whosoever is angry, etc.
Whosoever shall say, etc.”
Mat. 11:7-9.-“What went ye out ... to see?”

This question is three times repeated; to emphasize and call

attention to the fact that, though they were all attracted to John, yet
they rejected him, and his ministry, and his testimony. See under
Erotesis.
Mat. 11:18-19.-This is lost in the English Version: as in the Greek the
verb “came” is put out of its natural place (by the figure of Hyperbaton,
q.v. [Note: Which see] ), and is made to commence the two
successive sentences.
It is a very remarkable Anaphora.
Rom. 8:33-35.-Here we have the three questions, each beginning with
“Who shall?” (See page 87).
The first two questions should be answered like the third.
“Who shall lay anything to the charge of God’s elect?
Shall God that justifieth?
Who is he that condemneth?
Shall Christ that died, ...?
Who shall separate us ...?
Shall tribulation? etc.”
1Co. 3:9.-This, too, is hidden in the translation. In the Greek the figure
is clearly seen.
“God’s fellow-labourers we are:
God’s husbandry,
God’s building, ye are.”

Note, that the fellow-labourers are ourselves with one another; and
not we who are fellow-labourers with God. We are not to dishonour
God by bringing Him down and making Him one of ourselves. The
popular explanation is only another instance of man’s nature, which
made him so easy a prey to Satan’s temptation-promise, “Ye shall be
as gods” (Gen. 3:5).

Herein lies the difference between the First Adam and the Last,
between the First man and the Second. The first man thought equality
with God was a thing to be grasped at: but the Second Man did not so
consider it (Php. 2:6, R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).
Equality with God was not a thing to be obtained, but a thing to be
either inherently possessed (as He possessed it as the Son of God),
or to be received as the gift of God (as He received it as the Son of
Man).
1Co. 6:11.-“And such were some of you,

but ye are washed,
but ye are sanctified,
but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the
Spirit of our God.”
1Co. 6:12.
“All things [or rather meats] are lawful unto me, but
All things [to еай are not expedient:
All things [or meats] are lawful for me [fo eaf], but | will not be
brought under the power of any.”
Here the figure is combined with another called Mesarchia (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).
1Co. 11:3.-“But | would have you know that
the head of every man is Christ: and
the head of the woman is the man: and
the head of Christ is God.”
We have here Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), as well as
an irregular Climax (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
1Co. 12:8-11.-We have the repetition of the words, “to another.” In
the Greek the word is not exactly the same in each case. It is ἄλλος
(allos), another (of the same kind), six times, and ἑτέρος (heteros),
another (of a different kind), twice, in connection with “faith” and
“kinds of tongues.”* [Note: It is probable that Heteros marks a new
class; while Allos refers to subdivisions of the same class.]

“To one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom,

to another (allos) the word of knowledge by the same Spirit.

To another (heteros) faith by the same Spirit;

to another (al/os) the gifts of healing by the same Spirit.
To another (a//os) the working of miracles;

to another (allos) prophecy;

to another (al/os) discerning of spirits;

to another (heteros) divers kinds of tongues;

to another (al/os) the interpretation of tongues:
but all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to
every man severally AS HE WILL,” and not as we may will or “claim.”
1Co. 13:4.-In the first three verses we have the figure of Polysyndeton
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ), or “many ands.” In verses 4-7, we have a
combination of two figures:-Asyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), or
“no-ands”; and Anaphora in the repetition of the word “Charity” (verse
4).

In verse 7, the Greek order of the words is: Charity

“all things beareth,

all things believeth,

all things hopeth,
all things endureth.’
In verse 8:
“Whether there be prophecies, they shall fail;
whether there be tongues, they shall cease;
whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away.”
In verse 9:
“In part we know, and
in part we prophesy.”
In verse 11. “When | was a child,
as a child | spake,
as a child | understood,
as a child | thought.”
2Co. 11:26.-Here we have the repetition of “in perils” eight times.
2Co. 7:11.-We have the repetition of the word “yea” to increase the
effects and results of true godly sorrow for sin in seven particulars.
Referring to six different aspects of their sorrow as manifested in three
different directions.

The word rendered “yea” really means but; and it may be
preserved by supplying the Ellipsis:-what carefulness (or rather
earnestness) it wrought in you, but not earnestness merely-that is
saying too little-

in respect of themselves.

but self-defence,

but indignation,

in respect of Paul.

but fear,

but vehement desire,

in respect of him who had done the wrong.
but zeal,

but revenge,
The first “but” combines the additional figure of Epitasis (q.v.
[Note: Which see] ), which is here an emphatic addition to a
statement or argument of six particulars.

Eph. 6:12.-“For we wrestle not
against flesh and blood, but
against principalities,
against powers,
against the rulers of the darkness of this world,
against spiritual wickedness in high places.”

This is to emphasize the fact that our conflict is spiritual, and that
Satan’s sphere of operations is not immorality or crime, but religion.
See all the references to him in Scripture, and note how opposed they
are to popular Satan-myth of the world and of Christendom.

Php. 3:2.-Note the repetition of the word “beware.”
Php. 4:2.-Ί beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche.”
Php. 4:8.-We have here the repetition of the word “whatsoever
things’ with which the figure of Asyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) is
combined, in order to emphasize the important conclusion “Think on
these things:” and these things, in eight nouns are arranged in the
figure of Chiasmus (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ).
1Jn. 1:1-3.-

“That which was from the beginning,

which we have heard,

which we have seen with our eyes,

which we have looked upon ...

That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you.”

This five-fold repetition of the pronoun 6 (ho), which, emphasizes

with great solemnity the subject of the epistle which is opened thus in
so stately a manner.
Jam. 5:7-8.-Three times we have “Be patient” with reference to the
coming of the Lord.
Jam. 5:13-14.-Twice we have the question “Is any?”

“Is any among you afflicted?
Let him pray.

Is any merry?

Let him sing psalms.

Is any sick among you?
Let him call,” etc.
Here are contrasted prayer and praise; and praying with singing.
Teaching us that prayer is not to be sung.* [Note: See Intoned Prayers
and Musical Services, by the same author and publisher.]
1Jn. 3:5; 1Jn. 3:8.-“He was manifested to take away our sins; ... the
Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the
devil.”

Here the two great purposes of Christ's manifestation are
declared: the one present, and the other future; the one in grace now,
and the other in power hereafter; the one in sufferings, and the other
in glory.

Other examples of Anaphora may be seen in Gal. 1:8-9. Rev. 7:5-8
(with Epistrophe), and elsewhere: for these examples are given only
as specimens.

Epanalepsis; or, Resumption
The repetition of the same word after a break, or parenthesis
Ep’-an-a-lep‘-sis. № is from the Greek ἐπί (epi), upon, ava (ana),
again, and Ajiwic (leepsis), a taking; and means a taking up upon
again.

In Latin it is called RESUMPTIO (Re-sump -tio).

In this figure the word is resumed, rather than repeated, from the
beginning of another sentence: and when the word is resumed after a
parenthesis it is called APOSTASIS, and the parenthesis is closed by
the apostasis.

A-pos’-ta-sis is from the Greek ἁπόστασις, which means a
standing away or off from, distance, interval; the repeated word which
resumes the statement or argument, standing away at a distance from
the first word.

Moreover, the word so taken up and resumed may not be
necessarily from the beginning of the sentence, but it may be taken up
again from the middle or from any other part, as in this sentence:-

“The persecutions undergone by the Apostles were a trial to their faith, and a
confirmation to ours; a trial to them,” etc.

It differs from Anaphora (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) in that the
repeated words are not immediately successive, but are separated by
a break or parenthesis: the repetition being a resumption of what the
writer or speaker had already before begun to say.

Rom. 3:25-26.-“Whom God hath set forth fo be а propitiation through
faith in his blood, to declare [his righteousness for the remission of
sins that are past, through the forbearance of God; to declare, / say],
at this time his righteousness:” etc.

1Co. 4:11; 1Co. 4:13, where the words in verse 11, “unto this
present hour,” are taken up again at the end of verse 13, “unto thid
day.”

1Co. 10:25; 1Co. 10:29.-Here, after a parenthesis (verses 26-28) the
word “conscience” is repeated from the end of verse 25, and the
argument is resumed in verse 29.

Eph. 3:1; Eph. 3:14.-“For this cause I, Paul, [the prisoner of Jesus
Christ.... (then after a parenthesis of thirteen verses he resumes in
verse 14), For this cause] | bow my knees,” etc.

Php. 1:22; Php. 1:24.-In verse 20, the apostle had been speaking of
glorifying God “by life, or by death.” For, if he lived, it would be
“Christ,” and if he died, it would be “gain” to him, and would release
him and give him rest from all his labours. The real conclusion is that if
he continued to abide in the flesh it would be better for them. But this
conclusion is interrupted by the mention, parenthetically, of a third
thing, which made him unable to say which of the two (living or dying)
he would really prefer, because this third thing was so much better
than either of the other two; for it was-the return of Christ. Then,
having mentioned this, he takes up the statement again, repeating the
beginning of verse 22 (“in the flesh”) and continuing it in verse 24.
Verse 23:-“But if | live in the flesh, [this is the fruit of my labour
(yet what | shall choose | wot not, for | am being pressed* [Note: —-
sé, | am being pressed.] out oft [Note: & occurs 857 times, and is
never translated “betwixt” anywhere else, But it 165 times rendered
“out of.”] these two, having a strong desire unto the return,$ [Note:
This is not the infinitive mood of the verb depart, but three distinct
words. οἱ (65), unto, 60 (to) the, ἀναλῦσαι (analusai), return. This verb
occurs in N.T. only in Luk. 12:36, “when he shall return from the
wedding.” It does mean, to depart, but from thence to here, not from
hence to there. See Tob. 2:1. Jdt. 13:1. 1Es. 3:3. Wisd. 2:1; 5:12. Sir.
3:15. 2Ma. 8:25; 2Ma. 9:1; 2Ma. 12:7; 2Ma. 15:28. Josephus Ant. vi.,
4, 1.] and to be with Christ, which is a far, far better thing): but to
remain in the flesh] is more needful for you” [i.e., than dying-not
better than Christ’s return].

He had told the Thessalonian saints that “we which are alive and
remain shall not precede those who are asleep. For the Lord Himself
shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the
archangel and with the trump of God; and the dead in Christ shall first
rise. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together
with them in clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and SO (οὕτω, houtdp,
thus, in this manner) shall we ever be with the Lord.” There, is
therefore, no other way of being with the Lord.” The Spirit of God
would not have written one thing to the Thessalonians and a different
thing to the Philippians.
Polysyndeton; or, Many-ands

The repetition of the word “and” at the beginning of successive

clauses
Pol’-y-syn’-de-ton. Greek, πολυσύδετον, from πολύς (polbis), many,
and συνδετόν (syndeton), bound together; hence, in grammar, it
means a conjunction (from σύν (syn) and δεῖν (dein), to bind). The
word, therefore, means much bound together or many conjunctions.

It is called also POLYSYNTHETON, from τίθηµ! (titheemi), to put
or place. Hence many puttings: i.e., of the same word-in this case of
the word “and.”

The English name for the Figure will, therefore, be MANY-ANDS.

Polysyndeton is merely one special form of Anaphora (q.v. [Note:
Which see.] ): i.e., it is a repetition of the same word at the beginning
of successive sentences: but this is always one special word “and.”
To understand the full significance and use of Polysyndeton, the
student must consider along with it the opposite Figure A-syndeton
(the same word syndeton with “a” prefixed, meaning no, instead of
“poly,” meaning many). See A-syn’-de-ton, i.e., NO-ANDS (page 137).

The two Figures form a pair, and should be studied together.

The Laws of Grammar decide for us how the conjunction “and”
should be used. If we are enumerating a number of things, we (by
usage) place the conjunction immediately before the last. This is the
cold law, which leaves what we say without any special emphasis. But
this law may be legitimately broken in two different ways for the sake
of emphasis. In order to attract the attention of the hearer or reader,
we may either use NO ANDS, or we may use MANY ANDS. Man may
use these figures, however, without sufficient reason, and unwisely:
but the Holy Spirit ever uses words in all perfection, and it behoves us
carefully to note whatever He thus calls our attention to.
When He uses “No-ands,” He does not ask us to stop and
consider the various particulars which are enumerated, but to hasten
on to some grand climax. In this case that climax which we read at the
end, is the all-important matter on which the greatest emphasis is to
be placed.

When He uses “many-ands,” there is never any climax at the end.
Instead of hurrying us on, breathlessly, to reach the important
conclusion; we are asked to stop at each point, to Weigh each matter
that is presented to us, and to consider each particular that is thus
added and emphasized.

One illustration of each will make this quite clear. We have an
example of both in one chapter (Luk. 14:1-35), and, strange to say, in
connection with precisely the same four words.

In verse 13, we have Asyndeton (no-ands): and in verse 21,
Polysyndeton (many-ands).

In the former case (Asyndeton), we are not asked to consider the
various classes of persons mentioned, but we are hastened on to the
important and weighty conclusion:-

Verse 13, 14. “When thou makest a feast, call the poor,
-the maimed,

-the lame,

-the blind:

and thou shalt be blessed.”

In other words, we are taught that, though we are not obliged to
make a feast at all, yet, even if we do, we can call whom we please:
but, if we call such persons as are here described, there is a great
blessing attached: hence, we are hurried over the enumeration of
these classes to be told of this blessing. And, even then, it really does
not matter much whether they are actually blind or lame, etc. The
point is they must not be able to return it.

On the other hand, the Master’s servant is commanded to “bring
in” such persons to the Lord’s feast, as a matter of simple obedience:
and when he has done this, he has done no more than his duty, and is
at the best, but an “unprofitable servant.” Hence, by the use of this
figure of Polysyndeton in verse 21, we are not hurried on to any climax
at the end, but we are detained at each step, and are thus asked to
consider carefully what is taught Us by the mention of each of these
various classes:-

“Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city,
and bring in hither the poor (i.e., those whom no one would think of
inviting, but who would welcome the invitation (15:1. Mat.

20:31):-“the poor” who could not afford to buy “a piece of ground”

(verse 18), or “five yoke of oxen” (verse 19).
and the maimed (i.e., those who would be most unlikely to be able to

say, “| have married a wife” (verse 20),
and the halt (χωλούς, as in verse 13, where it is translated “lame”: {6.,

those who could not “go” to use the oxen, or to “prove them,” at

the plough, verse 19),
and the blind (i.e., those who could not say, “I must needs go and see”

the piece of land which | have bought, verse 18).

Here, by this figure, instead of being hurried forward to a weighty
conclusion we are led gently backward by each “and” to think of these
four classes, and to contrast them with those whom the Lord had just
described in the preceding parable as making excuses.

These two illustrations will prepare us for the consideration of the
two figures separately, and enable us to understand them.

We consider here only the illustrations of Polysyndeton. The
examples of Asyndeton will be found under that figure (pages
137-148), which being Elliptical, i.e., characterised by the omission of
the word “and” has been placed under the First Division, Figures of
Omission.

Gen. 8:22.-Here the completeness of the covenant and the fulness of
the blessing, and the certainty of the Divine promise, is set forth in a
double four-fold description:-
“While the earth remaineth,

seedtime and harvest,

and cold and heat,

and summer and winter,

and day and night, shall not cease.”

Gen. 19:12.-“And the men said unto Lot

Hast thou here any beside?

son-in-law,

and thy sons,

and thy daughters,

and whatsoever thou hast in the city, and bring them out of this place.”
See also verses 16, 19; and verse 17 for Asyndeton.

Gen. 22:9; Gen. 22:11.-The solemnity and deliberation of Abraham’s

actions is emphasised, and each is marked off from the other by this

figure:-
and they came to the place which God had told him of;
and Abraham built an altar there,

and laid the wood in order,

and bound Isaac his son,

and laid him on the altar upon the wood:

and Abraham stretched forth his hand:

and took the knife to slay his son:

and the angel of the Lord,” etc.

Gen. 25:34.-“Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles;
and he did eat

and drink,

and rose up,

and went his way:

And Esau despised his birthright.”
Here our attention is drawn to the deliberateness of Esau’s action.
There is no haste in the words, as there was none in Esau’s deed.
Each part of it is minutely pointed out, and dwelt upon, as showing
that Esau did not fall under some sudden temptation, but that he
deliberately and wilfully “despised his birthright.” (See Heb. 12:16-17.)
Gen. 43:8.-This is shown more clearly in the Hebrew; it is partly
hidden in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] ‚ to suit the English idiom. Here, the
Polysyndeton is used to heighten the effect of Judah’s appeal to his
father to let them all depart and procure the food they so greatly
needed. The Hebrew reads:-

“And Judah said unto Israel, his father, Send the lad with me,
and we will get up,

and we will go,

and we shall live,

and so we shall not die;

also we,
also thou,
also our households.”
Exo. 1:7.-Here the figure is employed in order to impress us with the
marvellous increase of Israel by the Divine blessing (See Psa. 105:24;
Psa. 107:33).
“and the children of Israel were fruitful,
and increased abundantly,
and multiplied,
and waxed exceeding great,
and the land was filled with them.”
Jos. 7:11.-Jehovah shows to Joshua (and to us) the greatness of
Achan’s sin, by bringing out emphatically all the acts which formed
part of it. The Hebrew reads:-
“Israel hath sinned,
and they have also transgressed my covenant, which | commanded
them;
and (Ap, vegam, they have also taken of the accursed thing,
and have also stolen,
and have dissembled also,
and they have also put it among their own stuff.”
Five times we have ial (vegam), and also, in this verse.
Jos. 7:24.-Here, to show the awful solemnity of the judgment
executed upon Achan, and the magnitude of his sin, twelve times we
have the conjunction, eleven of the times with ru (πα.
“And Joshua,
and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah,
and the silver,
and the garment,
and the wedge of gold,
and his sons,
and his daughters,
and his oxen,
and his asses,
and his sheep,
and his tent,
and all that he had:
and they brought them unto the valley of Achor.”
1Sa. 17:34-36.-Here David enhances the importance of what he tells
King Saul, by bringing out graphically each detail of that which makes
him a type of the Good Shepherd:-
“And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father’s sheep
and there came a lion
and a bear,
and took a lamb out of the flock:
and | went out after him

and smote him,

and delivered it out of his mouth:

and when he arose against me, | caught him by his beard,
and smote him,

and slew him. Thy servant slew

both (Al) the lion,
and (al) the bear.

and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, etc.”

2Ki. 2:12; 2Ki. 2:14.-“And he took hold of his own clothes,

and rent them in two pieces:

and he took up (he took up also) the mantle of Elijah that fell from him,

and went back,

and stood by the bank of Jordan;

and he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him,

and smote the waters,

and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah?

and when he also had smitten the waters, they parted hither and
thither,

and Elisha went over.”
All this to show us the importance, not of any great climax, but of
each part of that wondrous miracle.
2Ki. 5:26.-In the words of Elisha to Gehazi on his return from
Naaman, he brings out by the use of this figure all that was in
Gehazi’s heart; showing that he knew how Gehazi had already
planned and arranged how he should spend and lay out the money
which he had asked of Naaman.

“Is it a time to receive money,
and to receive garments,
and oliveyards,
and vineyards,
and sheep,
and oxen,
and menservants,
and maidservants?”
1Ch. 29:11-13.-Here the greatness and the goodness of Jehovah is
set forth in David’s Thanksgiving. The whole structure* [Note: For
these structures see under Correspondence below.] of this
thanksgiving is as follows:-
Praise.
A а 10-. David blessing Jehovah
Ь -10. Jehovah’s eternity.
В — 11. Jehovah’s greatness “above all.”
В 12. Jehovah's goodness “unto all.”
A а 13. David blessing Jehovah,
b 14, 15. David’s mortality.
Prayer.
C 16. The House and its provision,
D 17. “I give” “mine heart.” (Time past and present).
р 17-19. Prepare their heart to give. (Time to come).
6 19. The house and its provision.
The figure occurs in B and B:-
“Thine, O Lord, is the greatness (Psa. 145:3),
and the power (verse 12 and Psa. 21:14),
and the glory (beauty, verse 13. Psa. 96:6),
and the victory (/ustre, 198. 15:29),
and the majesty (Psa. 21:6); for all that is in the heaven
and in the earth (is thine):* [Note: Or, omitting the italics “because of
all in the heavens and in the earth.”]
Thine is the Kingdom, O Lord,
and thou art exalted as head above all,
(The figure is lost by saying “both riches and honour.)
and the riches
and the honour
come of thee,
and thou reignest over all;
and in thine hand is power
and might;
and in thine hand it is to make great,
and to give strength unto all:

and now, our God, (not “Now therefore”) we thank thee,

and praise thy glorious name!”

Psa. 107:35-37.-Here, to enhance the blessings which Jehovah

bestows upon His people they are set forth with such distinctness that

we are asked to dwell upon each one that goes to make up the whole:
“He turneth the wilderness into a standing water,

and dry ground into watersprings,

and there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city
for habitation;

and sow the fields,

and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.”

Isa. 2:11-19.-Here the figure is employed to set forth the

completeness of the manner in which Jehovah will shake terribly the

earth” (19, 21). There is another figure employed (see under

Synonymia): and this, with the structure, shows us the importance and

solemnity of the whole passage. It commences with chap. 2, and ends
with chap. 4. Thus:-
А 2:1-5. Promise.
В 2:6-22. Threatening of judgment (general).
В 3-4:1. Threatening of punishment (particular).
А 4:2-6. Promise.
Then these members may be expanded thus:-
A. The Promise, 2:1-5.
A С 2:1, 2. Zion, its exaltation. All people flowing unto it.
р 3-. What they say: “Come ye, ... we will walk, etc.”
©С -3, 4. Zion, its rule. The word going out from it.
р — 5. What the people say: “Come ye, ... let us walk, etc.”
Then the second member B, with which we have to do (the figure
о Polysyndeton marking it and stamping it as a, whole), may be
expanded, thus:-
B. Threatening of judgment (general), 2:6-22. (With special reference
to men.)* [Note: In B (3-4:1) the reference is specially to women.
In A (4:2-6) the reference is:-
a 2. General.
b 3. To men.
b 4. To women.
a 6. General.]
Е Е 6-. Jehovah ceasing from His People.
© -6-9. Reason. Because they exalt themselves before
God, and humble themselves before their idols.
G 10-21. Judgment. The People humbled, and Jehovah
alone exalted. Idols abolished.
F 22. “Cease ye from man,” &c.
Once more, the member G may be expanded, thus:-
©. The Judgment (2:10-21).
©С Н1а 10-. Concealment. “Go to the rock,” etc.
Ь -10. Reason: “For fear of the Lord,” etc.
by Jehovah.
J с 11. Man abased. Jehovah exalted
@ 12-16. High things brought low
ο. 17. Man abased. Jehovah exalted
а — 18. Idols utterly abolished
H2 а 19-. Concealment. “They shall go to the rocks,”
etc.
Ь -19. Reason: “For fear of the Lord,” etc.
J 20-. Idols cast away by man.
H3 а  21-. Concealment, “to go into the clefts of the
rocks.”
В -21. Reason: “For fear of the Lord,” etc.
We may note in passing that in J we have Jehovah and Idols:
while in J we have Man and his Idols.
Now, we are prepared to see how the judgment executed by
Jehovah in J (verses 11-18) is further emphasized by the figure of
Polysyndeton; as it is still further marked and emphasized by the
figure of Synonymia (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ):-
MAN
J ο 11. The lofty looks of man shall be humbled,
and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down,
and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day.
Jehovah’s judgment оп GOD’S WORKS (seven members).
d — 12-16. For the day of the Lord* [Note: This is the first
mention of “the Day of the Lord.” For the significance of
this, see Number in Scripture by the same author and
publisher.] of hosts shall be upon every one [or thing]
that is proud and lofty,
and upon every one [thing] that is lifted up;
and he shall be brought low:
and upon all the cedars of Lebanon that are high and
lifted up,
and upon all the oaks of Bashan,
and upon all the high mountains,
and upon all the hills that are lifted up,
Jehovah's judgment on MAN’S WORKS (four).
and upon every high tower,
and upon every fenced wall,
and upon all the ships of Tarshish,
and upon all pleasant pictures.
MAN.
ο 17. And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down,
and the haughtiness of men shall be made low;
and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day.
Jehovah's judgment on man’s works.
а 18. And the Idols, he shall utterly abolish.
Isa. 3:17-26; Isa. 4:1.-Here, we have, in these few verses, the “many
ands” marking the minuteness of the Lord’s judgment on the
daughters of Zion.
These verses form one member (B) of the larger structure (see
above), which may be expanded, as follows:-
В. 3-4:1. Threatening of judgment (Particular).
В е 3:1-7. Threatening. What Jehovah will “take away” from
Jerusalem and from Judah.
# — 8-9-. Sin. Tongue, doings, countenance.
е — -9-11. Threatening. “Woe, woe.”
# 12. Sin. Weak and oppressive rulers (4, 4).
ε 13-15. Threatening. Jehovah will judge and rule.
@ 16. Sin. Feminine haughtiness.

п 17-4:1. Threatening. What Jehovah will “take away” from
the daughters of Zion.
Here, in the last member η (3:17-4:1), we have twenty-six “ands,”
which the reader can notice for himself.
Isa. 37:37.-Here, to enhance the overthrow of Sennacherib’s army,
and to show how completely Jerusalem was delivered from the siege
which he made against it, we read:-
“So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed,
and went,
and returned,
and dwelt at Ninevah.”
Jer. 31:28.-Here the figure emphasises both the “scattering” and the
“gathering” of Israel:-
“And it shall come to pass, that, like as | have watched over them to
pluck up,
and to break down,
and to throw down,
and to destroy,
and to afflict; so will | watch over them, to build

and to plant, saith the Lord.”

Hag. 1:11.-To enhance the description of the troubles which had fallen
upon Israel, a nine-fold “and” is employed (nine being the number of
judgment)* [Note: See Number in Scripture, by the same author and
publisher.] :-

“And | called for a drought upon the land,

and upon the mountains,

and upon the corn,

and upon the new wine,

and upon the oil,

and upon that which the ground bringeth forth,

and upon men,

and upon cattle,

and upon all the labour of the hands.”
Mat. 7:25.-Неге the perfect security of the “wise man,” who hears the
sayings of Jesus, and is likened unto a man who built his house upon
a rock, is emphasized by a five-fold “and” (five being the number of
grace).

“And the rain descended (on the roof),

and the floods came (at the foundations),

and the winds blew (at the sides),

and beat upon that house:

and it fell not.”

While, on the other hand, in verse 27, the insecurity of the “foolish
man,” who hears, but does not, the sayings of Jesus, is set forth by a
six-fold “and” (six being the number of man and of human
independence and imperfection:-

“And the rain descended,
and the floods came,
and the winds blew,
and beat upon that house;

and it fell:

and great was the fall of it.”

Mat. 24:29-31.-Here, to emphasize the wondrous events of the day of

the Lord, and the order of them, the figure is used.
“Immediately after the tribulation of those days
The sun shall be darkened,

and the moon shall not give her light,

and the stars shall fall from heaven,

and the powers* [Note: See under Catachreesis.] of the heavens
shall be shaken,

and then shall appear the sign of the Son of Mant [Note: See under
Idiom and Synecdoche.] in heaven:

and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn,

and they shall see the Son of Mant [Note: See under Idiom and
Synecdoche.] coming in the clouds of heaven with power and +

[Note: See under Hendiadys.] great glory.
and he shall send his angels with a trumpet and + [Note: See under

Hendiadys.] a great sound (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ),
and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds,* [Note:

See under Metonomy (of the adjunct).] from one end of heaven to

the other.”

This important passage describes the events which shall succeed
“immediately after” the great tribulation (which was the subject of Old
Testament prophecy. See Psa. 9:9; Psa. 10:1. Jer. 30:7. Joe. 2:11;
Joe. 2:31. Amo. 5:18. Zep. 1:14, etc. Rev. 6:17): so that there is,
therefore, no interval for a millennium of peace and blessedness
before the coming of the Lord.
This is the coming of the Lord with His saints (the Church), not His
coming for what will already have previously taken place before the
Great Tribulation begins. The Second coming corresponds with the
First Coming (so-called) in that the first part of it answers to His
“coming forth” at Bethlehem (Mic. 5:1-15 ii.), and the second part
answers to the “cometh unto” at Jerusalem (Zec. 9:9), the latter being
referred to in 2Th. 2:2, Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , and
the former revealed in 1Th. 4:16-17.

Consequently his title, “The Son of Man,” agrees with the scope of
the passage; which has to do with dominion on the earth. While the
elect can only be the elect of Israel (see Deu. 30:4 (Ixx.) Zec. 2:6,
etc.).

Mar. 3:31-35.-Here each part of the instructive scene is emphasized
to attract our attention:-

“There came then his brethren,
and his mother,
and standing without, sent unto him, calling him:
and the multitude sat about him,
and they said unto him, Behold thy mother

and thy brethren without seek for thee:

and he answered them, saying, Who is my mother, or my brethren?

and he looked round about on them which sat about him,

and said, Behold my mother,

and my brethren! For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is
my brother,

and my sister,

and mother.”

The scene which is thus emphasized is connected with verse 21
as appears from the structuret [Note: For what is meant by Structure
see below under Correspondence.] of this whole passage.

Mar. 3:21-35.
A а 21-. Jesus’s kindred (margin),
Ь — -21-. Their interference with him.
ο -2Ί. Their disparagement of him.
В @а 22-. The Scribes’ first charge: “He hath

a devil.”

e -22. The Scribes’ second charge: “By
the prince of the devil scasteth he out
devils.”

B е 23-27. His answer to the second
charge.
а 28,29. His denunciation of the first charge.

A а 31-. Jesus’s kindred,

Ь -31, 32. Their interference with Him,
ο 33-35. His disparagement of them.

From this structure we learn that (1) the object of the visit, is

explained in verses 21-31, and that (2) the reference of verse 28 is to
the first charge of the Scribes-explaining what is called “the
unpardonable sin”: and (3) that the “kindred” of verse 31 included his
mother in the design and conspiracy.
Luk. 1:31-32.-Here the birth of the Lord Jesus is presented as it is in
Isa. 9:6-7, with the “sufferings” overleaped, and the present season of
His rejection not noticed. Our attention is called to all the wondrous
details and separate parts of His glory, which, though thus linked
together and connected with His birth, are not immediately
consecutive.
“And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb,
and bring forth a son,
and shalt call his name JESUS. He shall be great,
and shall be called the Son of the Highest:
and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David:
and he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever;
and of his kingdom there shall be no end.”

It is Mat. 1:21; Mat. 1:23, which refers to Isa. 7:1-25, and thus
connects the King with the “sufferings”: while it is Luke, which refers to
Isa. 9:1-21, and thus connects “the Man” with the glory that shall
follow.t [Note: See below under Rev. 12:1-17]

Luk. 7:11-18.-Here, there is no climax, but we are asked to stop and
dwell upon each additional circumstance, and see why it is mentioned,
and what is its peculiar lesson for us:-

And it came to pass the day after, that he went into a city called Nain:
and many of his disciples went with him,
and much people. Now, when he came nigh to the gate of the city,
behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his
mother,

and she was a widow:

and much people of the city was with her:

and when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her,

and said unto her, Weep not.

and he came

and touched the bier:

and they that bare him stood still.

and he said, Young man, | say unto thee, Arise.

and he that was dead sat up,

and began to speak;

and he delivered him to his mother;
and there came a fear on all:

and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among
us;

and, That God hath visited his people,

and this rumour of him went forth throughout all JudZa,

and throughout all the region round about;

and the disciples of John showed him of all these things.”

Here in these eight verses we have no less than twenty “ands,”
each introducing a fact and a statement for our earnest consideration;
each fraught with truth and teaching. The last, for example, is the
reason why John sent his disciples to Jesus. This reason is not given
in Mat. 11:2 : which is thus explained. John was languishing in prison;
and, when he heard that Jesus was raising the dead, he naturally
wondered, if Jesus were “He that should come,” why he should be
suffering in prison.

See also Mar. 3:1-6, the miracle of the man with the withered
hand.
Luk. 7:38.-Here the woman's devotion to the Lord is set forth in a
gracious five-fold enumeration of the parts of which it was made up:-
“And stood at his feet behind him weeping,
and began to wash his feet with tears,
and did wipe them with the hairs of her head,
and kissed his feet,
and anointed them with the ointment.”
Five “ands” in one verse!
Luk. 10:27.-Here a five-fold description is given in order to set forth
that love which is “the fulfilling of the Law’:-
“Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul,
and with all thy strength,
and with all thy mind:
and thy neighbour as thyself.”

It is sometimes said that we are never commanded to do that
which is impossible. But the truth is, the Law is given, and the
perfection of this command is thus emphasized, in order to reveal and
bring to light our own impotence, that we may thankfully cast
ourselves on God’s omnipotence in that Saviour whom He has
provided and anointed.

Luk. 12:45-46.-Here, the sin of the wicked servant, who said, “My lord
delayeth his coming,” is set forth in a fourfold description:-

“And shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens,

and to eat

and drink,

and to be drunken.”

Likewise his punishment is described in a fourfold manner:-

“The lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for
him,
and at an hour when he is not aware,
and will cut him in sunder,
and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers.”

What a solemn fact it is that those who put off the hope of the
Lord’s Coming till after the Tribulation are the ones who “smite” their
fellow-servants; and this merely because they hope to be taken away
before it comes!

Luk. 15:20.-Here, five particulars give the fulness of Divine grace in
receiving the lost sinner:-

“When he was yet a great way off,
his father saw him (eyes),
and had compassion (heart),
and ran (feet),
and fell on his neck (arms),
and kissed him’ (lips).
There is no climax; but we are asked to dwell separately on these
five aspects of grace, five (4 + 1) being the number which is
symbolical of grace.* [Note: See Number in Scripture, by the same
author and publisher.]
Luk. 15:22-23.-Here, we have an eight-fold enumeration of the gifts:
showing the completeness of the blessings poured upon accepted
one:-

“The father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe (but do
more than that);
and put it on him;
and put a ring on his hand,
and shoes on his feet:
and bring hither the fatted calf,
and kill it;
and let us eat
and be merry.”
Joh. 10:27-28.-The riches of the grace bestowed upon the Lord’s
people are thus enumerated and emphasized by the five-fold
Polysyndeton:-

“My sheep hear my voice,
and | know them,
and they follow me;
and | give unto them eternal life;
and they shall never* [Note: See under Repeated Negation.] perish,
and not anyone shall pluck them out of my hand” (so Greek).
Act. 1:8.-“But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is
come upon you:
and ye shall be witnesses unto me
both in Jerusalem,
and in all Judea,
and in Samaria,
and unto the uttermost part of the earth.”
Thus is emphasized for us the fact that there is one message, for
all places and for all times. “Preach the Gospel to every creature.” Not
“adapt the Gospel to every century.”
There are, here, three concentric circles. (1) The innermost
“Jerusalem and in all Judea,” the place of Religiousness where they
professed to worship God and to read His word. (2) “And in Samaria”
which was the place of corrupt religion, for it is written of Samaria,
“they feared the Lord, and served their own gods” (2Ki. 17:33). (3)
“And unto the uttermost part of the earth,” which was the place of no
religion.

The witness for each was to be, not concerning Doctrines or

Sacraments, or Rites and Ceremonies; but, concerning a PERSON!
“Ye shall be witnesses unto МЕ”-а crucified, risen, and coming
Saviour. This is to be the witness: and this is the Gospel.
Rom. 8:29-30.-Here there is no climax or conclusion, but each great
fact is to be weighed and duly considered. We emend the A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
only by putting the word “also” in the correct place* [Note: See a
pamphlet, entitled, Also: a Bible-Study on the use of the Word, by the
same author and publisher.]

“For whom he did foreknow, he did predestinate also ..

Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he called also:
and whom he called, them he justified also:
and whom he justified, them he glorified also.”
Rom. 9:4.-Неге the figure is used to impress us with the wonderful
possessions and privileges of Israel,
“Who are Israelites; to whom pertaineth the adoption (νίοθες ia
sonship, Deu. 4:7; Deu. 4:33-34),
and the glory (1Sa. 4:21),
and the covenants (which precede the Law, Gal. 3:17),
and the giving of the Law,
and the service of God (ἡ λατρεία, hee /atreia, the [tabernacle]
worship),
and the promises.”
1Co. 1:30.-“But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made
unto us wisdom,
and righteousness,
and sanctification,
and redemption.”

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] rendering does not
alter the fact that these four wondrous things are distinctly separated,
so that we are to study them, each one by itself, and to learn the
weighty lessons and the equal importance of each. It is Christ Jesus
who is our righteousness; and He is equally our sanctification, and in
Him we are perfect and complete as to our standing before God; and
in Him we now wait for Resurrection: i.e., the redemption of our bodies
from the power of the grave (Rom. 8:23. Eph. 4:30).

Eph. 4:31.-“Let all bitterness (πικρία, pikria, the opposite of χρηστοί,
chreestoi, verse 32, kind).
and wrath (θυμός, thumos, the opposite of εὔσπλαγχνοι,
eusplangchnoi tender-hearted),

and anger (ὀργή, orgee, the opposite of χαριζόµενοι, charizomenoi,
forgiving),

and clamour,

and evil-speaking be put away from you with all malice.”

Here there is no climax; but in the next verse we have the opposite
figure of Asyndeton, in which there are no “ands,” because there is a
weighty conclusion at the end, to which we are hastened on.

* [Note: There is an “and” here in the A.V., but the Greek is -5

(de), but. This is omitted by Lachmann, and put in the margin

by Tregelles, Westcott and Hort.] “Be ye kind (χρηστοί,

chreestoi, the opposite of πικρία, pikria bitterness, verse 31),
-tender-hearted (εὔσπλαγχνοι, eusplangchnoi, the opposite of θυμός,
thumos, wrath),

-forgiving one another (χαριζόµενοι, charizomenoi, the opposite of
opyn, orgee, anger),
even as God for Christ’s sake hath forgiven you.”’t [Note:
Lachmann has Ucis (humin), us, which is put in the margin by Tr. WH.
апа R.V.]

Php. 3:3.-“For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the
spirit,

and rejoice in Christ Jesus,

and have no confidence in the flesh.”

Thus the Spirit emphasises these three great fundamental
principles of Christianity, and asks us to dwell upon each, noting the
necessity of making all our worship wholly spiritual (Joh. 4:23-24);
making the Lord Jesus the source of all our joy; and renouncing all
attempts to work out a righteousness of our own.
1Th. 2:11.-“Ye know how we exhorted
and comforted
and charged every one of you, as a father doth his children.” (See

under Ellipsis, page 89).
1Ti. 1:5.-Here, the figure points us to the true genealogy of charity, or
love.
“Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart,
and of a good conscience,
and of faith unfeigned.”

If the faith be not right and unfeigned, then the “conscience”
cannot be “good.” Conscience is the result of faith. It will condemn us
in the doing of what we believe to be wrong. It will approve the doing
of what we believe to be right. Hence, the importance of a true “faith.”

If the conscience be not “good,” the heart cannot be pure; and if
the heart be not pure, there can be no true, divine love.
2Ti. 4:17-18.-Contrast this passage with the example of Asyndeton in
2Ti. 3:10-11. In that passage we are not detained over the manner of
the Lord’s deliverance, but pointed to the great fact that He did deliver
out of all. But here we have no such climax, and are asked to stop and
consider each part of the wondrous deliverance.

“Notwithstanding, the Lord stood with me,
and strengthened me; that by me the preaching might be fully known,
and that all the Gentiles might hear:
and | was delivered* [Note: See under the figures of Ellipsis and
Polyptoton.] out of the mouth of the lion.

and the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work,

and will preserve met [Note: See under the figure of Paregmenon.]
unto his heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory for ever and ever.
Amen.”

Heb. 13:8.-“Jesus Christ the same yesterday,

and to-day,

and for ever.”

Jam. 1:24.-Here the repeated “and” greatly emphasises what Bengel

calls the “hastiness joined with levity” of the natural man.
“For he beholdeth himself,

and goeth his way,

and straightway forgeteth what manner of man he was.”

Jam. 4:13.-The Polysyndeton here, Bengel says, expresses the

caprice of a mind secure and indifferent-the will of a mind at ease.
“Go to now, ye that say, To-day or to-morrow we will go into such a
city,
and continue there a year,
and buy
and sell,
and get gain.”
2Pe. 1:5-7.-Here the sevenfold “and” points to all that is included in

and follows the greatest gift of God (verse 3). Faith itself is God's gift

(Eph. 2:8), and therefore it is not added to anything. It is the “precious

faith” which is “obtained” through the righteousness of God (verse 1).
“And besides this (καὶ αὐτό τοῦτο, kai auto touto, and for this
very reason: i.e., because we have “precious faith” (verse 1),
and are “partakers of the Divine nature” (verse 4), giving all
diligence (see verse 15 and 3:14), add to your faith, virtue (τὴν
ἀρετήν, teen areteen, courage);

and to virtue, knowledge;

and to knowledge, temperance (ἐγκράτεια, engkrateia, self-control,
which is the fruit of knowledge. It means having self well reined in,
the government of а// the passions of the flesh);

and to temperance, patience (under afflictions or the sufferance of
evil, as courage is used in encountering and averting evil);

and to patience, godliness (which is the only foundation of true
patience or endurance. Apart from godliness it is stoicism, or mere
indifference),

and to godliness, brotherly kindness (the love of your Christian
brethren);
and to brotherly kindness, charity” (the love of all). (1Pe. 1:22).

Thus “faith” is the source out of which all virtues must spring, and
“love” is the point to which all such virtues tend. Hence, “Whatsoever
is not of faith is sin’ (Rom. 14:23), and “the end of the commandment
is love” (1Ti. 1:5).

Another important figure is combined here with Polysyndeton (see
under Climax (which is repeated Anadiplosis).

Rev. 1:11.-Here the seven churches are to be separated as being
equal in importance, and distinct in their position:-

“What thou seest write in a book
and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia; unto Ephesus,
and unto Smyrna,
and unto Pergamos,
and unto Thyatira,
and unto Sardis,
and unto Philadelphia,
and unto Laodicea.”
Rev. 3:17.-Here, the figure is used to bring out the Laodicean
condition of soul.
“Because thou sayest, | am rich
and increased with goods,
and have need of nothing;
and knowest not that thou art wretched,
and miserable,
and poor,
and blind,
and naked.”
Rev. 6:15.-Here, to show the universality of the fear which will be
manifested when “the great day of his wrath is come”-all classes of
society are named and stated with all formality in order to impress our
minds:-

and the kings of the earth,

and the great men,

and the rich men,

and the chief captains,

and the mighty men,

and every bondmen,

and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of
the mountains.”

Rev. 12:1-17 -This chapter is rendered remarkable by the figure of

Polysyndeton. Forty-four times the word “and” is repeated, bringing

before us a variety of details connected with matters which are thus

shown to be of the greatest possible importance. In chap. 5, we have

the book written “within and without” (ἔσωθεν καὶ ὄπισθεν, esqbthen

kai opisthen), pointing to its esoteric (or inner) and exoteric (or outer)

meaning. What follows in chaps, 6-11, describes the exoteric or

outside manifestations-events which will be seen by all; for chap. 11

carries us right on to the end, to the sounding of the “seventh” or last
trumpet, and thus covers the whole ground, even_ including
Resurrection and Judgment, and the setting up of the kingdom of the
Messiah. See 11:15-18, which is coterminous with Rev. 20:1-15.
Chapter 12 does not, therefore, go forward, but takes us back to
the time, even before chap. 5, and gives us the esoteric or inner
meaning, and reveals to us the sources, springs, and secrets of all
that leads up to the judgments recorded in chaps, 6-11 Chapters
13-14 introduce supplementary information which must be read into
those earlier preceding chapters (6-11), showing the part that the
Dragon and his agent the Antichrist will have in them.

Chapter 12 is constructed as follows:.-

Rev. 12:1-17
A а — 1-5. The woman, the dragon, and the child.
Ь 6. The woman’s flight, and its duration (1,260 days).
В 7-13. War in heaven (ἐγένετο, came to pass).
A Ь — 14. The woman’s flight and its duration three years
and a half
а 15, 16. The woman, the dragon, and the rest of her seed.
B17. War on earth.

Each of these members can, of course, be expanded. For

example:-
a: (1-5). The woman, the dragon, and the child.
The woman.
а ο 1-. Agreat sign in heaven.
d -1. A woman. Her description (“crown,” στέφανος, a
victor’s crown).
е 2. Her action: and the child.
The dragon.
с — 3-. Another great sign in heaven.
а -3. The dragon. His description (“crowns,” διάδηµατα,
royal fillers) (see only here, and 13:1 and 19:12).
e 4,5. His action: and the child (Dan. 8:10).
b: (verse 6) may be expanded thus: as may be also b (verse 14).
Ь # 6-. The woman: her flight.
9 -6-. Her place-the wilderness.
# — -6-. The woman: her nourishment.
9 -6. Her continuance-1,260 days.
The larger member B: (7-13) may be thus shown:-
B: (7-13) War in heaven.
В п 7,8. Heaven. War in heaven.
i 9. Earth. The dragon cast into the earth.
В 10-12. Heaven. Rejoicing in heaven.
i 13. Earth. The dragon cast into the earth.
i (verse 9) thus:-
The dragon cast out on earth.
1 ]  9-. The Dragon.
κ -9-. Place; cast out into the earth.
] -9-. His angels.
к -9. Place. Cast out with him.
h (verses 10-12) thus:-
Rejoicing in heaven.
в 1 10. Heaven. Rejoicing.
πι -10-. Earth. Salvation come for it.
п— -10, 11. Reason. “For the accuser, etc.”
1 12. Heaven. Rejoicing.
πι -12-. Earth. Woe to the inhabiters.
п — -12. Reason. “For the devil is come down,” etc.
The woman and her seed and the dragon takes us back to Gen.
3:1-24, where we see the “enmity” placed between them. Thence we
are taken to the woman (Israel), through whom the child was to come,
as seen in the call of Abraham, and in the establishment of “Israel,”
and his twelve sons, of which the twelve stars (the Zodiacal signs*
[Note: Just as the seven stars in chap. 1 are the symbols of the
Churches.] ) were the symbols. (See Gen. 37:1-36).
The Zodiac is a certain zone of the heavens extending about 9°
each side of the Ecliptic. This is divided into twelve parts, each of
which has its own peculiar “sign.” The word “Zodiac” is not to be
derived from Caw, or ζήν, to live, or ζώδιον, a little animal (for not all
the signs are animals), but from a more ancient root through the
Hebrew ona, to go, to go by steps, to step, to move slowly in a
regular and stately manner. (See 2Sa. 6:13. Jer. 10:5. Jdg. 5:4. Psa.
68:8. Hab. 3:12). The noun means a step. So that the Zodiac is
literally а way with steps. Its later Biblical name is Mazzaroth olaivyy
Job. 38:32 (see margin); or Mazzaloth (ΠξΙά), 2Ki. 23:5 (see margin),
from the root réé (azal), to go or revolve, divided, as the Zodiac is
divided into signs. Gesenius points out that the Mazzaroth (from τοῦ
has another sense, and means to admonish, premonish, presage. See
Gen. 37:9-10, where in Joseph’s prophetic dream he sees the whole
family represented as “The sun, and the moon, and the eleven stars,”
(himself being the twelfth.* [Note: Ancient Jewish authorities hold that
these twelve stars were the signs of the Zodiac. This is, without doubt,
the case. These “stars” have been well called “signs,” for in them is
written in the very heavens the history of redemption. Each of the
symbolical figures is pictured performing some typical action. From the
earliest times, also, one was appropriated to each of the twelve sonsof
Jacob. Josephus informs us that the tribes carried these signs on the
tribal standards. The Chaldee paraphrase, of a still earlier date, says
the same. The Targums also add their testimony. As the order of
encampment is described in Num. 1:1-54 and Π., the four tribes:
Judah, Ephraim, Dan and Reuben are equidistant. The sign of Judah
was “Leo,” the lion; Ephraim’s was “Taurus,” the bull; Dan’s was
“Scorpio,” the scorpion (afterwards changed to the “Aquila,” the
eagle); and Reuben’s was “Aquarius,” the man. These four signs are
at the four cardinal points of the Zodiac, exactly corresponding with
the position of the four tribes. It is interesting to note that the sign now
known as “Libra,” or, the scales, is not found in the more ancient
Zodiacs, its place being occupied by “Ara,” the altar, the top of which
the sign or hieroglyphic much more resembles. The idea contained in
Libra, the scales, or Justice, is the altar on which justice was satisfied.
Libra or Ara was not borne on any of the standards, Simeon and Levi
being included under one (Pisces). Hence the place of Libra, or rather
of Ara, the altar, was the place occupied by the Tabernacle, and by the
altar of burnt offering itself. It is remarkable that the three decans, or
constellations of Libra, or Ara, are the Cross, the Victim, and the
Crown.

The evidence is altogether too overwhelming for us to take these
“twelve stars” as representing anything but Israel. It is a “woman” that
is seen, but her surroundings (of sun and moon, and the twelve signs
of the Zodiac) show that she personifies emblematically the whole
nation of Israel.

See The Witness of the Stars by the same author and publisher.]

The birth of the seed of this woman is set forth in the Old
Testament in two distinct prophecies, showing its two-fold character,
one answering to “the sufferings of Christ’; the other, to “the glory that
should follow.”

In Isa. 7:14, we have the Incarnation of “Emmanuel-God with us”
(Mat. 1:23).

While, in Isa. 9:6-7, we have the birth presented, with the scene of
humiliation overleaped.
The former is the “suffering” aspect: the latter is the “glory” aspect
of the birth of this Child.

It is remarkable that in Matthew-(the gospel of the kingdom)-we
have the suffering aspect from Isa. 7:14; while in Luke-the gospel of
Christ as man-we have the glory aspect from Isa. 9:6-7. See and
compare Luk. 1:31-33.

In Rev. 7:5, it is this latter, or the glory aspect of Messiah’s birth
that is presented, as referred to in Psa. 2:1-12; Psa. 87:1-7 It leaps
over the “sufferings of Christ,” and over the whole of the interval of this
present dispensation, and goes forward at once to the time when He
shall reign over and rule all nations. “Who was to rule” (verse 5) is
μέλλει (mellei), and means “who is to rule all nations.” It passes from
the birth of the man-child, and goes on at once to “the glory which
should follow, when the government shall be upon his shoulder.”

It is Christ Personal therefore, in the first instance, who is the
subject of this prophecy. He was the “man-child” “caught up to God
and His throne.”

But this does not exhaust the prophecy. The word rendered “man-
child” in verse 5 is a peculiar word.* [Note: The masculine form, Gs
(arseen), occurs only in Mat. 19:4. Mar. 10:6. Luk. 2:23. Gal. 3:28,
where in each case the sex is emphatic.] The Π.Ν. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] renders it “a son, a man child.” Here it is,
according to all the critical texts (including the Revisers’ Text) and
Ancient MSS, ἄρσεν (arsen). Now ἄρσεν here is neuter, and therefore
cannot possibly refer to any one individual. It cannot apply to either a
man or a woman. The mother of this child is not an individual! but is
collective and composite. So also is the child.t¢ [Note: We have a
similar example of a neuter word including both sexes in the word
J666J (gunaikaria), in 2Ti. 3:6, where it is rendered “silly women.”
But it occurs only here, and is neuter. It therefore includes silly women
of both sexes!]

Some see in this “man-child” the Church of God. But the Church is
neither “woman” nor “child,” “neither male nor female” (Gal. 3:28). The
Church is “one new man” in Christ (Eph. 2:15). The Church was
before creation, “before the foundation of the world” (Eph. 1:4), and is
not, therefore, the subject of prophecy, as is the kingdom and
dominion in the earth, which was “from the foundation of the world”
(Mat. 13:35; Mat. 25:34, etc.).

On the other hand, we have such distinct prophecies in the Old
Testament of this woman and her child that it surprising any should fail
to connect them.
A time is coming when a new nation is to be brought forth in Israel;
a nation bringing forth the fruits which Israel should have brought
forth; the nation referred to in Mat. 21:43.

Concerning that day Jehovah bids Zion to “sing” (Isa. 54:1-10).

Of that day Jehovah has said, “Before she travailed, she brought
forth; before her pain came, she was delivered of a MAN-CHILD. Who
hath heard such a thing? who hath seen such things? Shall the earth
be made to bring forth in one day? or shall a nation be born at once?
for as soon as Zion travailed she brought forth her children” (Isa.
66:5-14).
Again Mic. 4:9-10 distinctly foretells this travail of Zion; while chap.
5:2, 3 connects together this composite man-child. In verse 3, we
have the birth of Him, who shall be “ruler in Israel.” His rejection by His
people is not named, but the consequent rejection of His people by
Him both implies it and contains it; for, in the next verse, we read,
“Therefore will He give them up, until the time that she which travaileth
hath brought forth; then the remnant of his brethren shall return unto
the children of Israel. And He shall stand and rule (marg. [Note: arg.
Margin.] ) in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the
Lord his God; and they shall abide: for now shall he be great unto the
ends of the earth.”

Surely, if there is any connection whatever between prophecy and
its fulfilment, we have it in Rev. 12:1-17, where we see in this woman,
Zion, “travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered” (verse 2), and the
dragon standing “before the woman which was ready to be delivered,
for to devour her child as soon as it was born.”

This was true of Messiah, and it will be true of the servant (the
composite “child”), as the rest of the chapter goes on to explain.

It is this birth of a nation “in one day,” which will lead to the “war in
heaven,”* [Note: See a small pamphlet, Things to Come, by the same
author and publisher.] (see Dan. 10:20; Dan. 12:1), and lead to the
Dragon's being cast out into the earth. This will bring on the crisis
described in this chapter and chapter xiii. (See 2Th. 2:6, under
Ellipsis.

The chapter is too long to quote here in full, but if all the many

“ands” be noted and marked, the importance of all these details will be
at once noticed. See the next example.
Rev. 13:1-9.-Here the figure is used to mark, to emphasize, and to call
our attention to the solemn events, which will follow upon Satan’s
being cast out into the earth, to find no more place in heaven (12:8).
Forty-five times the word “and” is repeated in this chapter!

Rev. 12:1-17 is the key to the Apocalypse for the events recorded
in it are Preliminary to the events recorded in the earlier part of the
book.

First of all comes the taking up of the Body of Christ (12:5) which
causes the “war in heaven (12:7-12), and ends in the casting out of
Satan. This is the great event which is the beginning of the end, and
which ushers in the Apocalyptic scenes and judgments.* [Note: Chap.
9:1, though coming before chap. 7., records a vision subsequent to it.
John says, “I saw a star lying fallen ‘6uéU6J (pept - kota) from
heaven. : not › а!, : а$ п А.М. В.М. has : fallen. ' ]
Consequent on this follows a great persecution of Israel; which will
be to those who are left, the first exoteric or visible sign of the Devil’s
“great wrath” (12:12). But this persecution will for a time be thwarted.
“The earth” will “help the woman” (12:16). That is to say, the settled
state of the peoples of the earth will stop this persecution.

Then the Dragon at once proceeds to organise his great rebellion.
In the Greek the twelfth chapter ends with the first sentence of chap.
xiii: where, as in the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , the true
reading is-“And HE stood upon the sand of the sea.” The best Μ55.,
with Lachmann, Tregelles, Alford, and Westcott and Hort, read ἑστάθη
(estathee), he stood, not ἑστάθην (estatheen), | stood.
That is to say, the settled state of “the earth” preventing the
destruction of Israel, the Dragon takes his post upon the sand of “the
sea” and out of the waters and the earth (of the peoples) he calls up
the two Beasts of chap. 13.-his last two great instruments,-the
“Antichrist” and the “False Prophet,”-by which he will seek to carry out
his purposes.

John sees them “rising up.” The word is ἀναβαῖνον (anabainon,
present participle), rising or mounting up, not “rise up” as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] has “coming up.” John
sees the first Beast “rising up out of the sea” (implying a gradual rather
than a sudden act): and the second Beast out of “the earth” (verse 11).

And then he proceeds to describe their characters and their deeds.
The figure of Polysyndeton (a remarkable example) calls our attention
to the many important details, each one of which is to be dwelt upon
by us as being full of meaning and instruction:-

And he stood upon the sand of the sea (i.e., the dragon, when cast
out from heaven),
and | saw a beast rising up out of the sea having seven heads,
and ten horns,

and upon his horns ten crowns,

and upon his heads the names of blasphemy;

and the beast which | saw was like a leopard (a combination of
Daniel’s beasts in one, Dan. 7:1-28) (a leopard is Greece),

and his feet were as the feet of a bear (Persia),

and his mouth as the mouth of a lion (Babylon),

and the dragon gave him his power (six times we have in this chapter
“it was given him’),

and his seat (or throne, 2:13; 16:10),

and great authority (Luk. 4:6. 2Th. 2:9-10).

and | saw one of his heads, as it were, wounded to death (similar to
verses 6, 12, 14),

and his deadly wound was healed;

and all the world wondered [and followed] after the beast (3:10. 2Th.
2:11-12),

and they worshipped the dragon (this is the one great object, aim, and
end of Satan, Mat. 4:9) which gave power unto the beast;

and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast?
who is able to make war with him? (Compare Exo. 15:3; Exo.
15:11, for the blasphemy.)

and there was given to him a mouth, speaking great things and
blasphemies (2Th. 2:4),

and authority was given him to continue forty and two months (Dan.
7:25),

and he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme
his name (Dan. 7:8; Dan. 7:11; Dan. 7:20; Dan. 7:25; Dan. 11:36.
Psa. 52:1-9 : 2Th. 2:4),

and his tabernacle (whither the saints have been previously taken),

and them that dwell in heaven (i.e., the body of Christ which shall
have been caught up, when the accuser has been cast down).

and it was given him to make war with the saints (Dan. 7:21; Dan.
7:25; Dan. 11:40-44),
and to overcome them (Dan. 8:12; Dan. 8:24; Dan. 11:28; Dan.
11:30-33; Dan. 12:7):

and power was given him (Joh. 19:11) over all kindreds,

and tongues,

and nations (as with Nebuchadnezzar, Dan. 3:7);

and all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him (2Th. 2:11-12),
whose names are not written in the book of life (Mat. 24:24. Dan.
12:1. These are they who “overcome” him 2:7, 11, 17, 26; 3:5, 12,
21; 12:11) of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. If
any man have an ear to hear, let him hear.”* [Note: See 2Th.
2:1-17, under Ellipsis and Correspondence.]
This chapter contains two visions relating to two Beasts* [Note: See
2Th. 2:1-17, under Ellipsis and Correspondence.] : the first, the
Antichrist; the second, the “False Prophet.” The first is the false
Christ, and the second is the false-and satanic counterfeit of the
Holy Ghost. The second is marked, like the first, by the figure of
Polysyndeton.

The structure of this chapter is very remarkable. In the Greek the
first sentence forms the end of chap. 12. So we commence with the
second “And | saw’”:-

The Vision of the Two Beasts (Rev. 13:1-18).
Α 1-. The vision (καὶ εἶδον), “And I saw.”
B_-1-. The first Beast (Antichrist).
6 -1-. His origin. The sea (ἀναβαῖνον, rising).
Ю -1, 2-. His description.
E -2. His power (δύναµις) derived from the
dragon.
F 3-8. His deeds.
©С а 9. The Spirit's call: “Let him hear.”
Ь 10. The lesson: “Here is patience
and faith.”
A 11-. The vision (kai εἶδον), “And I saw.”
B -11-. The second Beast. “The False Prophet” (16:13;
19:20).
© -11-. His origin. The earth (ἀναβαῖνον, rising).
р -11. His description.
Е — 12-. His authority (ἐξουσία) derived from the
first Beast.
Е -12-17. His deeds.
G b 18-. The lesson: “Here is
wisdom.”
a -18. The Spirit's call: “Let him
count.”

Here A to F and A to F relate to the Beasts, while G and G relate
to the saints. The order of the two members of G and G is an
introversion, to make them off from the rest.

Rev. 18:12-13.-Here the figure heaps up and amasses the wealth of
Babylon. Each item is to be dwelt upon: there is no climax:-

“The merchandise of gold,
and silver,
and precious stones,
and of pearls,

and fine linen (merchandise, not the gift of grace as with the Bride,
19:8, “granted” to her: her righteous award),

and purple,

and silk,

and scarlet,

and all thyine wood,

and all manner of vessels of ivory,

and all manner of vessels of most precious wood,

and of brass,

and iron,

and marble,

and cinnamon (атотит, an Italian shrub of sweet odour),

and odours,
and ointments,

and frankincense,

and wine,

and oil,

and fine flour,

and wheat,

and beasts (of burden),

and sheep,

and horses,

and chariots,

and slaves,* [Note: (Greek «ΙΟ somata, bodies, was used by the
Figure of Synecdoche as a term for slaves, as we use “hands” for
labourers. See Ixx. Gen. 36:6. Hebrew dou in both passages,
used of the dead body (Num. 9:6; Num. 19:11-13) and for the living
(Lev. 24:17), but especially for slaves or captives (Num. 31:35;
Num. 31:40; Num. 31:46. The “bodies” carry the merchandise, and

the “souls” are counted as merchandise. See under Synecdoche.)]
and souls of men.

Many other examples of Polysyndeton are to be found, e.g., Num.
20:1-29 : 2Ch. 32:27-30. Isa. 3:18-24. Zep. 1:15-16. Mar. 4:1-9. Eph.
1:21. Php. 4:9. Rev. 11:17-18; Rev. 20:9-15; Rev. 21:8; Rev. 21:22-27;
Rev. 22:1-6; Rev. 22:17.

Paradiastole; or, Neithers and Nors
The Repetition of the Disjunctives Neither and Nor, or, Either and Or
Par’-a-di-as-to-lee. Greek, παραδιαστολή, from παρά (para), beside
or along, and στολή (stolee), a sending (from στέλλω (stello), to send).
Hence a sending beside or along. It is a form of Anaphora, by which
one word is repeated at the beginning of successive sentences. It
differs from Polysyndeton, in that instead of a conjunction, the
repeated word is a disjunctive, because it denotes a sending along,
ie., it separates and distinguishes. The words NEITHER and NOR, ог
EITHER and OR, are the words which are repeated in the figure of
Paradiastole, causing the various items to be put together disjunctively
instead of conjunctively.

Hence the Latins called it DISJUNCTIO, Disjunction.

Its use is to call our attention to, and to emphasize, that which is
thus written for our learning.
Exo. 34:4.-“The diseased have ye not strengthened,
neither have ye healed that which was sick,
neither have ye bound up that which was broken,
neither have ye brought again that which was driven away,
neither have ye sought that which was lost.”
Thus are the false shepherds indicted for their unfaithfulness and
neglect.
Luk. 18:29.-“And he said unto them, Verily | say unto you there is no
man that hath left home,
or parents,
or brethren,
or wife,
or children, for the kingdom of God’s sake, who shall not receive
manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come, life
everlasting.”
Joh. 1:13.-“Which were born
not of blood,
nor of the will of the flesh,
nor of the will of man, but of God.”
Thus is emphasized the important doctrine that the new birth is
entirely the work of the sovereign grace of God.
Rom. 8:35.-“Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?
Shall tribulation,

or distress,

or persecution,

or famine,

or nakedness,

or peril,

or sword?”

Thus is emphasized the blessed fact that our eternal security
depends not on human “perseverance,” but on Divine preservation, as
the Lord Jesus said “This is the FATHER’S WILL which hath sent me,
that of all which He hath given me | should lose nothing (Joh. 6:39).

This is followed up by the wondrous answer to the question
inverses 38 and 39. “I am persuaded that
neither death,
nor life,

nor angels,

nor principalities,

nor powers,

nor things present,

nor things to come,

nor height,

nor depth,

nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of
God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.”

1Co. 3:21-22.-“All things are yours; whether Paul,

or Apollos,

or Cephas,

or the world,
or life,
or death,
or things present,
or things to come;
all are yours; and ye are Christ's; and Christ is God’s.
Thus the riches of the glory of our inheritance in Christ is revealed
and set forth and displayed before our eyes.
2Th. 2:2.-“That ye be
not quickly shaken from your mind,
nor yet be troubled,
neither by spirit,
nor by word,
nor by Epistle as from us as [though we had said] that the day of the
Lord has set in.”
Thus does the apostle emphasize his strong desire that nothing
might loosen them (as a ship is loosed from its moorings) from the
blessed hope of “our gathering together unto Him” when He shall
“come forth” into the air “for” His people, who then shall be “caught up
to meet Him,” and thus be for ever with Him.
This he had taught them in the first epistle (4:13-18) for their
comfort, but now some person or persons must have deceived them
by asserting that the apostle had said, or written to say, that “the Day
of the Lord had set in.” If this were so, they might well be troubled, for
he was proved to have deceived them and to have given them a false
hope, for they had not been “gathered” to Christ to meet Him in the air
before the day of the Lord. So he writes ὑπέρ (hyper), on behalf of, or
in the interest of that blessed hope, in order to thus assure them that
he had never said or written any such thing.

Nothing stands between the day of Christ and our ascension to
meet Him in the air. Many things stand between that event and our
coming “with” Him in “the Day of the Lord.” The teaching of Paul by
the Holy Ghost is very different from popular Christian teaching to-day.
The popular teaching is that that shall not come till the world’s
conversion comes: the truth here stated is that it cannot come till the
apostacy shall have come!

Popular teaching is that the world is not yet good enough! The
figure here points us to the fact that the world is not bad enough!
There yet lacks the coming of the Apostacy and of Antichrist. See
further under Ellipsis, page 14-17.
Epistrophe; or, Like Sentence-Endings
The Repetition of the same Word or Words at the end of successive
Sentences
E-pis’-tro-phee. Greek ἐπιστροφή, a turning upon or wheeling about,
from ἐπί (epi), upon, and στρέφω (strepho), to turn.

It is a figure in which the same word or words are repeated at the
end of successive sentences or clauses, instead of (as in Anaphora)
at the beginning.

It is sometimes called ANTISTROPHE (an-tis’-tro-phee), a turning
against; also EPIPHORA (e-piph -o-ra), a bringing to or upon.

The Latin name is CONVERSIO (con-ver’-si-o), a turning round.

All these titles express the character of the figure, which is thus the
opposite of Anaphora.

Gen. 13:5.-“And the land was not able to bear them that they might
dwell together: for their substance was so great that they could not
dwell together.”
Deu. 27:15-26, where each clause ends with the word “Amen.”
Deu. 32:10.-* [Note: The Errata section of the print edition marks this
example for deletion.] It is beautifully expressed in the Hebrew by the
repetition of the pronoun al (Лы), him, at the end of each sentence. It
in hidden in the translation, both in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] ‚ on account of not being in accordance
with the English idiom. It reads:-

“In a desert land He found him

And in the waste howling wilderness, about, he led him.

He instructed him.

As the apple of His eye He kept him.”

So also in verse 12:-
“So the Lord alone did lead him,
And there was no strange god with him.”
Psa. 24:10.-
“Who is this King of glory?
The Lord of hosts, He is the King of glory.”
Psa. 115:9-11.-
“O Israel, trust thou in Jehovah,
he is their help and their shield.
O house of Aaron trust in Jehovah,
he is their help and their shield.
Ye that fear the Lord, trust in Jehovah,
he is their help and their shield.”
Thus is emphasized by Epistrophe the strength and security of
Jehovah's people.
Psa. 118:18-19.-Twice we have the Epistrophe:-
“Than to put any confidence in man.”
And three times (verses 10-11):-
“But in the name of the Lord | will destroy them.”
We have also Anaphora in verses 8, 9, and 10-12.
See also in the Psalms called the “Songs of degrees”:
120:2, 3, “false or deceitful tongue”;
121:3, 4, “not slumber’;
123:4, 5, “contempt”;

125:1, 2, “for ever’;

131:2, “a weaned child’;

132:2, 5, “the mighty God of Jacob.”
Psa. 136:1-26 is a notable example of this figure, for every clause
ends with the well-known words, “for his mercy endureth for ever.”
Eze. 33:25-26.-The words are twice repeated to emphasize their
solemnity. “And shall ye possess the land.”
Joe. 2:26-27.-Twice are the Words repeated and thus solemnly
emphasized. “And my people shall never be ashamed.”
Rom. 8:31.-

“If God be for us

Who can be against us?”
Rev. 7:5-8, which have the repetition of the sealing and the number,
as we have Anaphora at the beginning in the words “of the tribe.”
Rev. 22:11.-We have here the word “still” repeated at the end of four
successive sentences. The figure of Polysyndeton is also seen in the
repetition of the word “and” at the beginning of these sentences (verse
17).

The repetition of the verb “come.”

This figure may not only exist in the originals, and be hidden in the
translation, but there may apparently be a repetition in the English
when there may be none in the original. For example, Act. 19:15,
“Jesus | know, and Paul | know.” But, in the Greek, the two words for
“know” are quite different. Jesus | know (γινώσκω (gingbskq), to
perceive, or know, and to be influenced by the knowledge), and Paul |
know (ἑτήσταμαι (epistamai), to have knowledge of).

Epiphoza; or, Epistrophe in Argument
The Repetition of the same Word or Words at the end of successive
Sentences: used in Argument
Ep-i-pho’-za, from the Greek ἑτή (epi), upon, and φερεῖν (pherein) to
bear or bring. Hence in a bad sense fo attack or assault, especially
with words. Epiphoza is the figure of Epistrophe, when used
rhetorically in attack or in strong argument. We have an example in
2Co. 11:22.-
“Are they Hebrew? so am 1;
Are they Israelites? so am I;
Are they the seed of Abraham? so am I.”
The repetition here greatly emphasizes and displays the feeling.
Epanadiplosis; or, Encircling
The Repetition of the same Word or Words at the beginning and end
of a Sentence
Epr-an-a-di-plopr-s€s. Greek ἐπαναδίπλωσις, from ἐτή (epi), upon, ava
(ana), again, and διτλοῦς (diplous), a doubling.
It means a doubling upon again, and the Figure is so called
because the same word is repeated both at the beginning and at the
end of a sentence.

The Latins called it INCLUSIO, inclusion: either because the first
word of the sentence is included at the end, or because of the
importance of the matter which is thus included between the two
words.

They called it also CYCLUS, from the Greek κύκλος (kyklos), a
circle, because the repetition concluded what is said, as in a circle.

When this figure is used, it marks what is said as being comprised
in one complete circle, thus calling our attention to its solemnity; giving
completeness of the statement that is made, or to the truth
enumerated, thus marking and emphasizing its importance.

The Massorah gives two lists of this peculiar form of repetition,*
[Note: See Ginsburg’s Massorah, Rubrics, 424, Vol. ., letter i; and
98, Vol. Ι., letter ly which we have incorporated in our examples
marking them with an asterisk.

The Figure is frequently hidden or lost in translation (both in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] апа R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ), so that in these
cases we shall be obliged to vary the rendering in order to properly
exhibit it. Some are very difficult to reproduce, as in our first example.
*Gen. 9:3.-“Everything (dé) moving that liveth shall be meat for you;
even as the green herb have | given you everything.”

Here the first, according to our English idiom, is every, while the
last means the whole.
Exo. 32:16.-“The tables were the work of God, and the writing the
writing of God, graven upon the tables.” See also under Anadiplosis.
*Lev. 7:19.-“The flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be
eaten: it shall be burnt with fire; and as for the flesh, all that be clean
shall eat of the flesh.”
*Lev. 23:42.-“In booths shall ye dwell seven days; all that are
Israelites born shall dwell in booths.”
*Num. 3:33.-“Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the family
of the Mushites: these are the families of Merari.”
*Num. 8:12.-“The Levites shall lay their hand upon the bullocks: and
thou shalt offer the one for a sin-offering and the other for a burnt-
offering, unto the Lord, to make an atonement for the Levites.”
*Num. 31:40.-“And the persons (Hebrew, souls) were sixteen
thousand: of which the Lord’s tribute was thirty-and-two persons
(Hebrew, souls).”
*Num. 32:1.-‘And cattle, a very great multitude, had the sons of
Reuben and the sons of Gad; and when they saw the land of Jazer,
and the land of Gilead, behold the place was a place for cattle.”
*Num. 32:41.-“And Jair, the son of Manasseh, went and took the small
towns thereof, and called them Havoth-Jair.”

*Deu. 31:3.-“Jehovah thy God, he will go over before thee, and he will
destroy these nations from before thee, and thou shalt possess them:
and Joshua, he shall go over before thee, as hath said Jehovah.” See
also under Anadiplosis.

*Jos. 15:25.-“And Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, and Hezron, which is
Hazor.”

*Jdg. 11:1.-Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valour,
and he was the son of an harlot, and Gilead begat Jephthah.”

*4Sa. 26:23.-“Jehovah render to every man his righteousness and his
faithfulness: for the Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to-day, but |
would not stretch forth mine hand against the anointed of Jehovah.”
*2Sa. 9:12.-“Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was
Micha. And all that dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants unto
Mephibosheth.” See also under Anadiplosis.
*2Sa. 19:8.-“Now (Aud, attah) therefore, arise, go forth, and speak
comfortably unto thy servants; for | swear by the Lord, if thou go not
forth, there will not tarry one with thee this night; and that will be worse
unto thee than all the evil that befel thee from thy youth until now
(AUA, attan).

*1К!. 22:47.-“A king there was not in Edom; a deputy was king.”

*2Ki. 23:25.-“And like him there was no king before him; that turneth
to the Lord with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his
might, according to all the law of Moses: neither after him arose there
any like him.”

*1Ch. 9:8.-The verse begins and ends with “Ibneiah.”

*Neh. 11:21.-“The Nethinims dwelt in Ophel: and Ziha and Gispa
were over the Nethinims.”

*Est. 7:7.-“The king, arising from the banquet of wine in his wrath,
went into the palace garden. And Haman stood up to make request for
his life to Esther the queen: for he saw that there was evil determined
against him by the king.”

Psa. 27:14.-‘Wait on the Lord; be of good courage, and He shall
strengthen thine heart, wait (| say) on the Lord.”
See also under Apostrophe.
Psa. 53:2.-“God looked down from heaven upon the children of men,
to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God.”
Psa. 122:7-8.-
“Peace be within thy walls
And prosperity within thy palaces.
For my brethren and companion’s sake,
| will now say, Peace be within thee.”
Ecc. 1:2.-“Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities; all
is vanity.”

There is also the figure in this verse of Mesadiplosis (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).

Ecc. 7:2.-“A good name is better than ointment that is good.”

The figure is lost by the translation both in the A.V. [Note: The

Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] There is another figure in
this verse: Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ).
Mar. 7:14-16.-Hearken (ἀκούετε, akouete) unto me every one of you
and understand: there is nothing from without a man, that entering into
him can defile him: but the things which come out of him those are
they that defile the man. If any man have ears to hear, let him
hearken (ἁκουέτω, akouetq).”

See under Polyptoton, for the figure employed in the last sentence.
Mar. 13:35-37.-“Watch ye, therefore: for ye know not when the master
of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cock-crowing,
or in the morning: lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what
| say unto you | say unto all, Watch.”

Luk. 12:5.-“Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast
into hell: yea, | say unto you, Fear him.”

Joh. 3:8.-In this verse the figure is hidden both in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] The word is τὸ πνεῦμα (to
pneuma), the Spirit, which is used both at the beginning and the end
of the passage in the original. But at the beginning it is translated “the
wind,” and at the end “the Spirit.” The R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] has “the Spirit breathed, etc.” in the margin.

Now the word πνεῦμα (pneuma), spirit, occurs 385 times in the
New Testament, and is never translated “wind,” except in this one
place. There is a proper word for “wind,” which is ἄνεμος (anemos). It
occurs 31 times, and is always translated wind. So that it would have
been much clearer to have used this word, if “wind” had really been
meant.

If then we keep here the translation “spirit,” which is used
everywhere else, the verse will read and the figure appear as follows:-

“The Spirit breatheth where He willeth, and thou hearest His
voice, but thou knowest not whence He cometh or whither He goeth;
so is every one that is born of the Spirit.”

The wind has no will, but the Spirit has a will and a voice, and it is
of Him that we are born.

The verb θελεῖν (thelein), to will, occurs 213 times, and always
expresses a mental act of desire or determination proceeding from
one capable of wishing, willing, or determining. See the nearly
synonymous expression in 1Co. 12:11. “But all these worketh that one
and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as He will.”

Moreover, it is not correct to assert this of the “wind.” We do know
whence it comes and whither it goes, and the Scriptures them-
themselves assert that the comings and goings of the wind can be
easily known and traced. See Job. 1:19. Psa. 18:10. Ecc. 1:6, Eze.
37:9. Luk. 8:23. But not so of the Spirit (see Ecc. 11:5), where “spirit”
is placed in direct contrast with “wind” in the previous verse.
The things opposed in the immediate context are flesh and spirit,
earthly things and heavenly things, nature and grace, and AS the
Spirit in His movements is contrary to nature and above nature, SO is
every one who is born of the Spirit. Those who are thus born are “sons
of God, therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew Him not”
(1Jn. 3:1). As the world knoweth not and understands not the motions
and working of the Spirit of God, so the new breathings, and new will,
and new desires, and new motions of the new nature in those who are
born of the Spirit are also unknown.

Rom. 8:24.-“Hope that is seen is not hope.”
Gal. 2:20.-In this verse the figure, which is in the Greek, is lost in the
translation owing to the difference of idiom. In the Greek it reads:-

“Christ, | have been crucified-together-with, yet | live: and yet it is
no longer | that live, but, in me, Christ.”

See also under Hyperbaton.

Php. 4:4.-“Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again | say Rejoice.”
Jam. 2:14-16.-The passage begins and ends with the words, “What
doth it profit.”
The repetitions at the beginning and end of distinct portions, or
independent passages (such as Psa. 8:1-9, ciii., etc.), belong rather to
the subject-matter and are classed under Correspondence (q.v. [Νοίε:
Which 5εε.]).

Epadiplosis; or, Double Encircling
Repeated Epanadiplosis

When Epanadiplosis occurs at the beginning and end of successive
sentences, it is called EPADIPLOSIS (Ep-a-dip-lo-sis), a doubling
upon.
Psa. 47:6.-

“Sing praises to God, sing praises:

Sing praises unto our King, sing praises.”
Rom. 14:8.-“For whether we live, to the Lord we live; and whether
we die, to the Lord we die.”
Anadiplosis; or, Like Sentence Endings and
Beginnings
The Repetition of the same Word or Words at the end of one
Sentence and at the beginning of another
An‘-a-di-plo-sis. Greek, ἀναδίπλωσις, ava (ana), again, and διπλοῦν
(diploun), to double, or διτλοῦς (diplous), double.

It is also called EPANASTROPHE (Ep -a-nas*-tro-phe), from étri
(epi), upon, ava (ana), again, and στρέφειν (strephein, to turn), and
means, a turning upon again.

Also PALILLOGIA (pa-lil-log’-i-a), from πάλιν (palin), again, and
λόγος (logos), a word.

In Latin it is called REVERSIO, a turning back; and
REDUPLICATIO, a reduplication. The figure is so-called because the
word which ends one sentence is repeated at the beginning of the
next.
The words so repeated are thus emphasised as being the most
important words in the sentence, which we are to mark and consider
in translation and exposition.

The Massorah* [Note: See Ginsburg’s Massorah, Rubrics 422 and
423, Vol. Il. €.] gives two lists of such words; which we have included
in our examples, marking them with an asterisk.

The figure is frequently missed in the English translation, both in
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] In these
cases we have given our own translation of the original, so as to bring
out and exhibit the words which are thus affected by the figure of
Anadiplosis.

*Gen. 1:1-2.-“In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
And the earth became without form and void.”

Thus Anadiplosis is the very first Figure employed in the Bible.
And it is used to call our attention to, and emphasize, the fact that,
while the first statement refers to two things, “the heaven and the
earth”; the following statement proceeds to speak of only one of them,
leaving the other entirely out of consideration.
Both were created “in the beginning.” But the earth, at some time,
and by some means, and from some cause (not stated) became a
ruin:-empty, waste, and desolate; or, as it is expressed by another
Figure (Paronomasia, q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), tohoo and bohoo.
Now, whatever may be the meaning of tohoo (Wal), it is expressly
stated, in Isa. 45:18, by Him who created the earth that “He created it
not tohoo (Ualy.” Therefore it must at, and after some subsequent
period of unknown duration, have fallen into the ruin which the second
verse declares and describes.

The repetition of the word “earth” here, directs our attention to this
fact; and proceeds to describe the process by which the earth was
restored and peopled.

The whole chapter exhibits a parallel between this work, and that
“new creation” [Note: Compare 2Co. 4:6; 20ο. 5:17, etc.; and see a
pamphlet on “The New Creation and the Old,” by the same author and
publisher.] which takes place in the case of every one who is born
again of the Holy Ghost, and has the new man created within him.
*Gen. 7:18-19.-“And the ark went upon the face of the waters: and
the waters prevailed exceedingly.” (See under Epizeuxis).
*Gen. 31:6-7.-“Ye know that with all my power | have served your
father: and your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages
ten times; but God suffered him not to hurt me.” (See under
Hysterologia and Idiom.

*Gen. 31:33-34.-“Then went he out of Leah’s tent and entered into the
tent of Rachel. Now Rachel had taken the images,” etc. Here, by
rendering it “Rachel's tent” the figure is hidden, and the emphasis on
Rachel is lost.

*Exo. 7:16-17.-Here the figure is entirely hidden in the English. The
words 6a, ёа being translated hitherto and this. To preserve the
figure we must render it, “And, behold, thou wouldest not hear until
now. Now saith Jehovah.”

*Ехо. 12:4-5.-“Every man, according to his eating shall make your
count for the lamb. The lamb shall be without blemish.”

*Exo. 32:16.-“And the tables were the work of God, and the writing,
the writing of God, graven upon the tables.” Here we have not only
the figure of Anadiplosis in the repetition of the word writing (éua,
miktav), in the middle of the verse, but we have Epanadiplosis in the
repetition of the words, the tables (aéeu, halluchoth). See also
under Anthopopatheia.
*Num. 33:3-4.-“Israel went out with an high hand in the sight of all the
Egyptians. For the Egyptians buried all their firstborn, etc.”
*Deu. 31:3-4.-“And Joshua, he shall go over before thee, as hath said
Jehovah, and Jehovah shall do unto them as he did to Sihon and Og,
etc.”
*2Sa. 9:12-13.-“All that dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants unto
Mephibosheth. So Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem.”
*2Sa. 19:10-11.--“Now, therefore, why speak ye not a word of bringing
back the King? And the King David sent to Zadok,” etc. This
emphasis on the word king is lost in the English.
*Est. 6:5-6.-“And the king said, Let him come in. Then came in
Haman.”
*Est. 7:7-8.-“Не saw that there was evil determined against him by
the king. Then the king returned out of the palace garden.”

Thus tbe fourth acrostic containing the name of Jehovah is
emphasised.* [Note: See under Acrostichion (page 186), also a
pamphlet on these four acrostics by the same author and publisher.]
Psa. 98:4-5.-The Hebrew figure is lost in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , but is
preserved in the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] In the
Hebrew, verse 4 ends with the word CiFl-(zammeroo), and verse 5
begins with the same word.

“Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all the earth:

Break forth and sing for joy, yea, sing praises.

Sing praises unto the Lord with the harp.”
Psa. 113:8.-

“He lifteth the needy out of the dunghill,

That He may set him with princes;

The princes of His People.”
Psa. 115:12.-

“The Lord hath been mindful of us, and He will bless:

He will bless the house of Israel.
He will bless the house of Aaron.
He will bless them that fear the Lord,” etc.
Here, the figure of Anadiplosis passes on into Anaphora.
σα. 121:1-2.-
“| will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh
my help.
My help cometh from the Lord which made heaven and
earth.”
*Psa. 122:2-3.-
“Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem,
Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compacted together.”
The difference between this figure and that of Epizeuxis will be
seen by comparing Mat. 23:37; when the same word is repeated, but
in quite a different manner; for another purpose and with another
emphasis.
Psa. 126:2-3.-
“Then said they among the heathen,
The Lord hath done great things for them,
The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad.”
Psa. 127:1-2.-
“Except the Lord keep the city,
The watchman waketh in vain.
In vain ye rise up early,” etc.
Psa. 145:18.-
“The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him;
To all that call upon him in truth”
*Pro. 13:21-22.-
“To the righteous shall be repayed good.
A good man leaveth an inheritance,” etc.
*Isa. 24:4-5.-“Languish do the haughty people of the land.
The land also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof.”
These four lines form an Epanodos (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
*Hos. 2:21-22 (Hebrews 23, 24).-“And they shall hear the land: and
the land shall hear the corn,” etc.

See also under Anaphora, Polysyndeton, Climax and
Prosopoposia: so richly emphasized is the wondrous prophecy.

Mat. 7:22.-“Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in
thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many
wonderful works? Here the Anadiplosis develops into Anaphora by the
repetition of the words at the beginning of the last sentence. See
under Erotesis.

Hab. 3:2.-“Revive thy work in the midst of the years, in the midst of
the years make known.” See also under Pleonasm.

Mat. 10:40.-“He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that
receiveth me receiveth him that sent me.” The figure is Clearer in the
Greek than in the English.

Joh. 14:11.-“Believe me that | am in the Father, and the Father in
me.”

Joh. 18:37.- is difficult to express the figure in this verse in English.
The “I” is repeated thus:
“Thou sayest that a King am I. I to this end was born.”
Rom. 8:17.-“If children, then heirs: heirs of God, etc.”
Rom. 9:30.-“What shall we say then? That the Gentiles which
followed not after righteousness have attained to righteoushess;
righteousness which is of faith.”
Rom. 10:17.-“So then, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the
word of God.”
2Co. 5:17-18.-To see the figure, which is in the Greek, we must
translate “Behold, become new are all things, and all things are of
God.”
2Co. 9:6.-“Не that soweth sparingly, sparingly shall reap also: he
that soweth bountifully, bountifully shall reap also.”
Here is combined also the figure of Symploce (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ) in the repetition of the words “sow” and “reap.” There is also a
double Epanodos in the arrangement of the lines.

Gal. 4:31; Gal. 5:1.-So then, brethren, we are not children of a
bondwoman, but of the free (ἐλευθέρας, eleutheras). In the freedom
(ἐλευθερία, eleutheria) wherewith Christ hath made us free, stand
fast.”
Php. 2:8.-“And being found in fashion as a man, he became obedient
unto death, the death of the cross.”
Jam. 1:3.-“The trying of your faith worketh patience, but patience-let
it have its perfect work, etc.” See below, under Climax.

Climax; or, Gradation

Repeated Anadiplosis

When Anadiplosis is repeated in successive sentences, it is called
Climax, from κλῖμαξ (klimax), a ladder, a gradual ascent, a going up by
steps.
Hence, in Latin, it is called SCALA, a ladder; GRADUS, a step; or,
GRADATIO, a gradation.

By some, it is called EPIPLOCE (e-pip -/o-ce), a folding upon.

There are two figures to which this name is sometimes given.
There is a climax where only words are concerned, and a climax
where the sense is concerned. A climax of words is a figure of
Grammar; and a climax of sense is a figure of Rhetoric. We have
confined our use of the word climax to the former; as there are other
names appropriated to the latter. A Climax in Rhetoric is known as
Anabasis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), where the gradation is upward;
and Catabasis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), where it is downward: and
these have other alternative titles. See below under figures of sense.

Climax relates to words; and is, as we have said, a repeated
Anadiplosis, or a combination of successive Anadiplosis and
Epanadiplosis: where the /ast word of one sentence is repeated as the
first word of the next, and the last of this next sentence is repeated as
the first word of the sentence following, and so on.

Sometimes there may be two or three words, only one of which is
repeated; or the repeated noun may be represented by a pronoun.
It is a beautiful figure, very expressive; and at once attracts our

attention to the importance of a passage.
Hos. 2:21.-“And it shall come to pass in that day, | will hear. saith the
Lord, | will hear
the heavens, and
they shall hear
the earth; and
the earth shall hear
the corn, and the wine, and the oil, and
they shall hear Jezreel.”

Thus does the Spirit emphasize the blessing wherewith Jehovah
will bless His People-when they shall obtain mercy, and He will betroth
them unto Himself for ever.

Jezreel (i.e., Israel, by the figure of Metonymy, q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ) shall cry out for and expect the corn and wine and oil; and
these, by the beautiful figure of Prosopopoeia (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]
), are represented as hearing, and in their turn, crying out to the Earth
to bring them forth: the Earth, in its turn, is represented as hearing
them, and crying out to the heavens to send rain and heat and light
and air; and these in their turn hear, and cry out to Jehovah, the giver
of all, who in judgment had made the heaven as brass, the earth as
iron, and the rain as powder and dust (Deu. 28:23-24), but who in that
day will first give repentance to Israel, and then their cry reaches to
Jehovah, who will open the heavens, and give rain, and the Earth
shall bring forth her fruit (Jer. 14:22).

Thus the figures Epizeuxis (“I will hear”), Polysyndeton, Climax,
and Prosopopoeia are heaped together to express the coming fulness
of Israel's blessing.

Joe. 1:3-4.-Τηθ prophecy of Joel opens with the solemnity which this
figure always gives. “Tell ye
your children of it, and let
your children tell
their children, and
their children another generation.
That which the palmerworm hath left hath
the locust eaten; and that which
the locust hath left hath
the cankerworm eaten; and that which
the cankerworm hath left hath
the caterpiller eaten.”
Joh. 1:1-2.-“In the beginning was
the Word: and
the Word was with
God: and
God
the Word was, and
the same [word] was in the beginning with God.”

The order of the words as thus placed in the Greek exhibits, by the
figure of Climax, a great solemnity in the measured rising of the
sense, and emphasizes the fact that “the word was God,” for the use
of the article in the third proposition preserves the actual sense from
being mistaken or hidden by the Climax, which is obtained by the
inversion of the words from their natural order.

Thus, beautifully is the true Deity of the Lord Jesus affirmed.

His attributes and their effect are similarly marked in verses 4 and
5-

Joh. 1:4-5.-“In Him was
life; and the
life was the
light of men. And the
light shineth in
darkness; and the
darkness comprehended it not.”
Rom. 5:3-5.-“And not only so, but we glory also* [Note: See “Also”: a
Biblical Study, by the same author and publisher.] in
tribulations: knowing that
tribulation worketh
patience; and
patience [worketh]
experience; and
experience worketh
hope; and
hope maketh not ashamed.”
Rom. 8:29-30.-“For whom he did foreknow, he did
predestinate also to be conformed to the image of his Son,
that he might be the firstborn among many brethren.
Moreover, whom He did

predestinate, them he

called also; and whom he

called, them He
justified also; but whom he
justified, them he glorified also.”

Rom. 10:14-15.-“Whosoever shall

call upon the name of Lord shall be saved. How then shall
they

call on him in whom they have not

believed? and how shall they

believe in him of whom they have not
heard? And how shall they
hear without a
preacher? And how shall they
preach, except they may be sent.”
Jam. 1:3-4.-“Knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh
patience. But let
patience have her
perfect work, that ye may be
perfect and entire, wanting nothing.”
Jam. 1:14-15.-“But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of
his own
lust, and enticed. Then when
lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth
sin: and
sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death.”
2Pe. 1:5-7.-“We have already considered this verse under the figure
of Polysyndeton, which is almost inseparable from the figure of
Climax. It is there very differently exhibited, however, to show that
figure.
We need not further explain the passage here, but merely exhibit it
to show the sevenfold Climax.
“Add to your faith
virtue: and to
virtue
knowledge: and to
knowledge
temperance: and to
temperance
patience: and to
patience
godliness
brotherly kindness: and to
brotherly kindness, charity.

Mesarchia; or, Beginning and Middle Repetition
The Repetition of the same Word or Words at the beginning and
middle of successive Sentences
Mes-ar’-chi-a’, from the Greek µέσος (mesos), middle, and ἀρχή
(archee), beginning, because the same word or words are repeated at

the beginning and middle of successive sentences.

It differs little from Anaphora, where the sentences are
independent.

It resembles also Epizeuxis, when the repetition comes very close
together.
Num. 9:20.-“According to the commandment of the Lord they
abode in their tents, and according to the commandment of the
Lord they journeyed.”

Here, the repetition is at the beginning and the middle of the
passage.
Ecc. 1:2.-“Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities,
all is vanity.”

This may be regarded also as combined with Epanadiplosis (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).

Jer. 22:10.-“Weep ye not for the dead, ... but weep sore for him that
goeth away.” (See also Polyptoton).

Eze. 37:25.-“And they shall dwell in the land that | have given unto
Jacob my servant, wherein your fathers have dwelt, and they Shall
dwell therein, even they and their children and their children’s children
for ever.”

Zep. 1:15-16.-“That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and
distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and
gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, a day of the trumpet
and alarm,” etc.

This is the figure of Mesarchia, for it occurs in the beginning and
middle of the first sentence. Afterwards it becomes the figure of
Mesodiplosis, inasmuch as the word “day” occurs in the middle of
successive sentences, the first part of which consists of the repetition
of the Ellipsis: “That day is ...”
Mat. 10:40-41.-Here the verb “receive” is repeated several times at
the beginning and middle of several sentences.
Mesodiplosis; or, Middle Repetition
The Repetition of the same Word or Words in the middle of
successive Sentences
Mes-o-dip-lo‘sis, from the Greek µέσος (mesos), middle, and
ὅππλωσις (αἱριφσίς), a doubling. The doubling or repetition of a word
or words in the middle of successive sentences.

Sometimes called MESOPHONIA (Mes-o-Pho -ni-a), from µέσος
(mesos), middle, and φωνή (phqbnee), a sound, tone, speech, or
voice.
2Co. 4:8-9.-

“We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed;
We are perplexed, but not in despair:
Persecuted, but not forsaken;
Cast down, but not destroyed.”

Mesoteleuton; or, Middle and End Repetition
The Repetition of the same Word or Words in the middle and at the
end of successive Sentences
Mes-o-tel-eu-ton, from µέσος (mesos), middle, and τελευτή (teleutee),
a finish, or end, i.e., the same word or words repeated in the middle

and at the end of successive sentences.
2Ki. 19:7.-“Behold | will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a
rumour, and shall return to his own land: aud | will cause him to fall
by the sword in his own land.”

The repetition greatly emphasizes the fact stated.
Isa. 8:12.-“Say ye not a confederacy to all them to whom this people
shall say a confederacy.”
There is the figure also of Polyptoton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) in
“say ye” and “shall say.”
Mar. 5:2-3.-“And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there
met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, who had his
dwelling among the tombs.”

See also Polyptoton.

Repetitio; or, Repetition
Repetition of the same Word or Words irregularly in the same
Passage

This name is generally given as an alternative to the figure of
Geminatio or Epizeuxis. But as that figure already has several names,
and there is another form of repetition which seems to be without a
name, we have appropriated Repetitio (i.e., Repetition), to that form
which comes under none of the figures already enumerated.

A word or words are repeated, not in immediate succession, as in
Epizeuxis; not at the beginning, middle, or end of sentences (as in
those just treated); not at definite intervals; but frequently in the same
passage and irregularly for the sake of emphasizing and calling
attention to it.

The name clearly defines the nature of the figure, which may
frequently be met with. We append a few examples:-
Eze. 36:23-29.-Here the words “you” and “your” are very frequently
thus repeated, giving great emphasis to the whole of this precious
promise for Israel in the latter day. The use of this figure strongly
forbids the interpretation of this passage to any but Israel (verses 22,
32).

Joh. 14:1-4.-The repetition of the pronouns “I” and “you” emphasizes
the fact that nothing is to come between the Lord and the hearts of His
people, so that His promised return may be the object ever before
them.

Joh. 16:12-15.-Here, the verbs “shall” and “will” are repeated eleven
times in these four verses, in order to impress us with the importance
of the promise and the absolute certainty of its performance.

“| have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them
now. Howbeit, when He, the Spirit of truth, is (shall have) come, He
will guide you into all truth (“all the truth,” R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] ): for He shall not speak of ({6., from) Himself; but
whatsoever He shall hear, that shall He speak: and He will show you
things to come. He shall glorify me: for He shall receive of mine, and
shall show it unto you. All things that the Father hath are mine:
therefore said I, that He shall take of mine, and shall show it unto
you.”
Thus is emphasized the solemn promise of the Lord Jesus that the
Holy Spirit should give a further revelation of Truth, which could not be
made known at that time. We have it in the seven Epistles addressed
to churches by the Holy Spirit, through Paul.* [Note: See Things to
Come for 1898 and 1899.] That great promise cannot find its
fulfillment subjectively or individually, giving “truths” to different
persons, so different (not to say opposite) that fierce controversies
rage concerning them. It cannot have been fulfilled in the inspiration of
any one church. It can have been fulfilled only by the provision of
those text-books of Christian doctrine, which we have in the “Pauline”
Epistles addressed to churches, beginning with Romans and ending
with Thessalonians. Here, we have “all the truth” into which the Spirit
was to guide. Truth which glorifies Christ and instructs the Christian as
to his standing before God and his walk with God. No other part of
God’s Word contains such a body of Christian Theology. Every
Scripture is written for us, “for our learning”; but these are written
specially about the Church of God.

Gal. 4:9.-“How turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements
whereunto ye desire again to be in bondage.”

By this repetition we are pointed to the key to this whole passage,
as well as to the explanation of an obscure word and a difficult
expression. All turns on the meaning of the word, which is rendered
“elements” (oTolxgia, stoicheia). “The elements of the world” (verse 3),
and “weak and beggarly elements” (verse 10). The word “again,” twice
used, connects these two together, and emphasizes them.

Verse 3 reads:-

“Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the
στοικεῖα τοῦ κόσμου”. (stoicheia tou kosmou): i.e., the stoicheia
pertaining to the world.

It is clear what the cosmos is, for it is the world with reference to its
creation, and embraces the whole world. But what are the stoicheia?
The answer is given in verse 8, “When ye knew not God ye did service
(or ‘were in bondage,’ the same word as in verses 3 and 10) unto
them which by nature are no gods.” The stoicheia were the rites and
ceremonies of heathen idolatry.

In Greece to-day every mountain, tree, and grove and fountain has
its stoicheion or god, who has to be appeased and propitiated.
These Galatians had been such idolators (verse 8), but they had
abandoned these rites and ceremonies for Christianity, and yet
wanted to bring in the stoicheia, or the rites and ceremonies of
Judaism into the Church.

The same term is thus applied both to Paganism and Judaism,
and from the stand-point of being “all one in Christ Jesus” (3:28).

The Jewish rites of circumcision, purification, and the observance
of “days and months and times and years,” etc., are put upon the
same level as the worship and propitiation of spirits in trees and
mountains, etc. And the Holy Spirit asks by the apostle, “When ye
knew not God ye were in bondage unto them which by nature are no
gods. But now having known God ... how turn ye again unto the weak
and beggarly stoicheia whereto ye desire again to be in bondage? Ye
observe days and months and times and years. | am afraid of you, lest
| have bestowed upon you labour in vain” (Gal. 4:8-11. Compare Col.
2:16-18).

Hence, stoicheiolatry consists of introducing that which belongs to
the world (κόσμος, cosmos) into Christian worship and practice.
Romanism has given the stfoicheia of paganism and Judaism a very
large place in its creeds and ritual; While the Protestant Churches
show that they have not wholly purged themselves from them when
they adopt worldly methods and adapt Jewish rites and ceremonies to
Christian faith and practice.
1Th. 5:1-2; 1Th. 5:4-5.-The repetition of the pronoun “you” and “ye” in
these verses stands in marked contrast to the repetition of the
pronouns “they” and “them” in verse 3, thus pointing out to us the
significant lesson that those who are “waiting for God’s Son from
Heaven” are not concerned with “times and seasons” which have to
do with “the day of the Lord,” and His coming as “a thief’ on the
ungodly. The day of the Lord is His coming with His saints unto the
world. But, before this can happen, He will have come forth into the air
to receive them to Himself (1Th. 4:1-18.) Therefore, though “times and
seasons” have to do with “the day of the Lord,” they have nothing to
do with those who look for “the day of Christ.”
2Ti. 3:14-15.-“But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned
and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them:
and that from a child thou hast known the holy Scriptures, which are
able to make thee wise unto salvation.”

This is in harmony with the whole of this second epistle to Timothy,
which is thus marked as being so different from the first epistle.

In the first epistle we see the Church in its rule; and in the second,
we see it in its ruin. In the first, Timothy is instructed as to how he is to
conduct himself in the Church in its corporate capacity; whom he is to
appoint to its various offices; and what are to be their qualifications,
etc., etc.

But when we pass to the second epistle we find all changed. The
corporate position and testimony of the Church is gone, and all now is
individual-intensely individual, as may be seen all through. In the four
chapters we have the four stages of the “Down-grade movement.”

In 1:15 all turn away from Paul’s teaching: but “I am not ashamed:
for | know whom | have believed” (verse 12): “Be not thou ashamed”
(verse 8), “I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee”
(verse 5).

In chap. 2:18, 19, others err “concerning the truth. Nevertheless,
the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, the Lord
knoweth them that are his. And let everyone that nameth the name of
Christ depart from iniquity.”
In chap. 3:8 there are those who “resist the truth,” but the only
hope is for the individual believer to cling fast to the God-breathed
word, and to use this sword of the Spirit.

In chap. 4:4 there are and shall be those who turn away their ears
from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables.” The immediate
injunction follows: “but watch thou in all things ... make full proof of
thy ministry, etc.”

All this is emphasized and forced upon our notice by the repetition
of the pronouns in this epistle.

Rev. 8:7-12.-Eleven times are the words, the “third part” repeated (τὸ
τρίτον, Ю triton).
Polyptoton; or, Many Inflections

The Repetition of the same Part of Speech in different Inflections
Po-lypr-tep-ton. Greek, πολύττωτον; from πολύς (ро!ы5), many, and
TITWOIC (ptqsis), a falling: in grammar, a case (from an assumed form
πτόω, ρίοφ, to fall). Hence, Polyptoton means with many cases, {8., a
repetition of the same noun in several cases, or of the same verb in
several moods or tenses. With many inflections is a definition which
covers both nouns and verbs.

It is called also METAGOGE (met-a-gqb-gee). Greek μεταγωγή,
from µετά (meta), a change, and Gyw (адф), to lead. It means а
change of course; a different arrangement of the same word, a leading
of the same word through different inflections.

In Latin it is called CASUUM VARIETAS, a variety of cases.

This figure, therefore, is a repetition of the same word in the same
sense, but not in the same form: from the same root, but in some
other termination; as that of case, mood, tense, person, degree,
number, gender, etc.

By “case,” etc., is to be understood not merely the case of nouns,
but inflections of all kinds.

We have arranged the different forms of Polyptoton, as follows:-

|. Verbs.
1. Verbs repeated in different moods and tenses.
2. Verbs with their imperatives, or participles (HOMOGENE).
a. In strong affirmation.
b. In strong negation.
3. Verbs with cognate noun.
4. Verbs with other parts of speech (combined Polyptoton).
Il. Nouns and Pronouns.
1. Nouns repeated indifferent cases.
2. Nouns repeated in different numbers.
а. In singular and plural.
b. In singular and dependent genitive plural.
Ill. Adjectives.
I. Verbs
1. Verbs repeated in different moods and tenses
Gen. 1:24.-Here, the Hebrew is: “God, when He visiteth, or in
visiting, will visit you.”

And this, in order to emphasize the certainty of Joseph’s belief in
the promise of God, as is stated in Heb. 11:22. “By faith Joseph, when
he died made mention of (margin, remembered) the departing of the
children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones:” {6.,
Joseph remembered the promise of God made to his fathers and had
such faith in it that he expressed his certainty s to its fulfillment by the
use of this figure.

It is translated: “God will surely visit you”: but to give effect to the
figure we might render it: “God will most certainly visit you,” putting
great emphasis on the words “most certainly.”

Exo. 23:5.-‘If thou wouldest forbear to help him, helping thou shalt
help with him”: {Θ., as A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “thou shalt surely help with him”
(See Appendix D, Homonyms).

2Ki. 21:13.-“And | will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipeth a dish,
wiping it and turning it upside down.”

The figure is thus used to emphasise the completeness with which
the Lord would empty Jerusalem.

Jer. 8:4.-
“Shall they fall and not arise?
Shall he turn away and not return?”
As these words stand they are unintelligible and the figure is
obscured. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] is no
improvement:-

“Shall men fall, and not rise up again?

Shall one turn away and not return?”

The Massorah* [Note: Ginsburg’s Edition, Vol. ΙΙ, page 54.] calls
attention to the fact that of the two words “turn and,” the first letter of
the second word should be the last letter of the first word, this being
one of the examples where words are wrongly divided.

Thus read the sense comes out in agreement with the context of
which Israel is the subject:-

“Shall they fall and not arise?
Shall they return [fo Him] and He not return [fo them].

This agrees also with Mal. 3:7, and it brings out the
correspondence between the two lines, as well as exhibits more
clearly the Polyptoton.

Mat. 11:15.-“He that hath ears to hear, let him hear,” ὦτα ἀκούειν,
ἀκουέτω (gota akouein akouetq).

On fourteen occasions in the New Testament does the Lord use
this expression (thus, or in similar words), and we place them all
together here under the first occurrence so that we may see the
fulness of the cumulative effect.

In the English we have a Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]) as
well, “ears {ο hear,” but not in the Greek, except in the case of the
eight in Revelations, where we have οὓς ακουσάτω (ous akousato).
The real figure lies in the emphatic polyptoton in each case.

This solemn injunction was never used by mere human lips. No
mortal man could demand the attention to which this emphatic
command lays claim None but the Lord ever used these words. They
are (unlike many other of the examples) translated literally, but they
mean: He whose ears are opened, let him surely hear, or let him take
heed to give the most earnest attention!

This attention and obedience the Lord claimed on fourteen
separate occasions.

The fourteen are not divided into two sevens, but into six and eight
(two fours and two threes).
Six being the number of man, He spoke the words six times as
“the Son of Man” on earth: and eight being the number of
resurrection), He spoke the words eight times as the Risen Lord from
heaven.

Though the occasions were fourteen (7 X 2) on which the words
were used, the actual number of times the words are written down by
the Holy Spirit is sixteen (4 X 4, or 42), two being in the parallel
passages in the Gospels.* [Note: For the significance of these
numbers see Number in Scripture (pp 20-47). by the same author and
publisher.]

These fourteen occasions are connected with different parts of one
great subject, which is dispensational in its character: and this figure
being used only of this one subject, points us to the significant fac that
it requires the Divinely opened ear to understand the great
dispensational change which was about to take place.

It had been foretold in Isa. 6:9 (see above) that it should come
about in consequence of the ears being closed to the divine
announcement: and seven times this solemn infliction of judicial
blindness is written down in the Scriptures of Truth.

When the great change was announced in consequence and
fulfillment of this! then, fourteen times did the Lord Himself emphasize
the important fact that only the opened ear would be able to
understand it; implying that it referred to secret things, and that only
those to whom that secret was revealed would be able to understand
it or receive it.
For the interpretation of these fourteen occurrences, see Things to
Come (July to Dec., 1896; Jan. and Feb., 1897; Sept. and Oct., 1898,
etc.)* [Note: G. Stoneman, 39 Warwick Lane, London, E.C.] We here
give merely their order.

1. Elijah and John the Baptist (Mat. 11:15).

2. The parable of the sower (Mat. 13:9; Mar. 4:9; Luk. 8:8).

3. The candlestick (Mar. 4:21-23).

4. The parable of the tares (Mat. 13:43).

5. The two dispensations (Mar. 7:16).

6. The tower; the king and the salt: or, the great supper and its

lessons (Luk. 14:16-35).
7-13. The epistles to the seven churches (Rev. 2:1-29, iii.).
14. The beast from the sea (Rev. 13:9).
Mat. 13:9; Mat. 13:43.-See 11:15.
Mat. 19:12.-“He that is able to receive it, let him receive it.” (xwpsiv
χωρείω, chaprein спфгейф).
Mar. 4:12.-See Mat. 13:13.

Mar. 4:23.-See Mat. 11:15.

Mar. 7:16.-See Mat. 11:15.

Luk. 8:8.-See Mat. 13:13.

Luk. 14:35.-See Mat. 11:15.

Joh. 12:40.-See Mat. 13:13.

Joh. 13:7.-Here there is apparently a Polyptoton of the verb “to know,”
but it is only in the English, not in the Greek. “What | do thou knowest
not now, but thou shalt know hereafter.”

In the Greek the two verbs are different. The first is οὐκ οἶδας (ouk
oidas), thou knowest not as a matter of fact. The second is γνώσῃ
(σπφςεε) thou shalt learn, i.e., get to know hereafter.” It is this latter
verb which is used in 1Co. 2:14, for the natural man not only cannot
receive, or discern, them, but he cannot even /earn them, or get to
know them, not having the necessary spiritual capacity.

Joh. 13:10.-Here again there is no Polyptoton of the verb to wash, as
appears in the English, for in the Greek the two words are quite
different. “He that is washed (λελουµένος, leloumenos, i.e., bathed)
needeth not save to wash (viwao8al, nipsasthai, i.e., to wash a part of
the body) his feet.” The teaching is that he who is purged by the
offering on the brazen altar, needeth only the water of the brazen
laver, which was for “the priests to wash in.” So those who are
regenerated by the Holy Ghost and have their standing in Christ need
only the washing of the hands and the feet, {6., the cleansing of their
works and ways by “the washing of water by the word.”

Joh. 17:26.-“And | have declared unto them thy name and will
declare it.”

Joh. 17:25.-“O righteous Father, the world hath not known (éyvw,
едпф) thee: but | have known (ἔγνων, egnapn) thee, and these have
known (ἔγνωσαν, egnosan) that thou hast sent me.”

Rom. 2:21-23.-“Thou therefore that teachest (6 διδάσκων ho
didaskqpn) another, teachest (διδάσκεις, didaskeis) thou not thyself?

Thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal (uu
κλέππειν, KAETITEIC, Mee ΚΙερίείη, klepteis)?

Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou
commit adultery (μὴ µοιχεύειν, µοικεύεις, Mee moicheuein,
moicheueis)?

Thou that makest thy boast of the law (νόµωῳ, потф) through
breaking the law (νόµου, nomou), dishonourest thou God?”
1Co. 6:2.-“Do ye not know that the saints shall judge (κρινοῦσιν,
krinousin) the world? and if the world shall be judged (κρίνεται,
krinetai) by you, are ye unworthy [fo judge] (Ellipsis of the verb) the
smallest matters (κριτηρίων, kriteeriqn), i.e., “are you unworthy [fo
judge] the smallest judgments?”

2Co. 1:10.-“Who delivered us from so great a death, and doth
deliver: in whom we trust that He will yet deliver us.”
Gal. 1:8-9.-“But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any
other gospel (sUayyeAiZntal, euangelizeetai) unto you than that which
we have preached (εὐηγγελισάμεθα, eueengelisametha) unto you, let
him be accursed. As we said before, so say | now again, If any man
preach any other gospel (εὐαγγελίζεται, euangelizetai) unto you ...
let him be accursed.”

See also under Anaphora.
2Ti. 3:13.-“But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse,
deceiving and being deceived.”
2Ti. 4:17-18.-“And | was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. And
the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work.”

There is also the figure of Polysyndeton in this verse (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).
1Jn. 3:7.-“Little children, let no man deceive you; he that doeth
righteousness is righteous, even as He is righteous.”

See also this verse under the figure of Tapeinosis.
Heb. 10:37.-“He who cometh will come”: {6., He will surely come.

See also under the figure of Epizeuxis.
Rev. 2:7; Rev. 2:11; Rev. 2:17; Rev. 2:29; Rev. 3:6; Rev. 3:13; Rev.
3:22; Rev. 13:9.-See Mat. 11:15, and, under Correspondence, “The
seven epistles to the churches” by the Holy Spirit through St. Paul.
2. Verbs with their Infinitives or Participles
In this case a verb and its participle are used in combination in order
to add an intensity to the sense; or to give the verb, as it were, a
superlative degree.
This form of the figure is sometimes called Ho-mog’-e-nee (from
ὁμός (homos), the same, and γένος, genos, kindred).
HOMOGENE means therefore of the same kindred, akin, because
the two verbs are akin.
It is used in two ways:-
a. In strong and emphatic affirmation.
a. In strong negation.
(a) In strong affirmation or exhortation
Gen. 2:16.-“Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat.”
Hebrew, eating thou shalt eat.
The conjugated verb is strengthened and emphasized by the
infinitive preceding it. This infinitive Eve omitted in 3:2, and thus
“diminished” from the word of God.

Gen. 2:17.-“Thou shalt surely die.” Hebrew, dying thou shalt die.

Here again Eve (3:3) alters the Word of God by saying “Lest ye
die”!* [Note: Not only does she thus diminish from and alter the Word
of God but she adds to it the words “neither shall ye touch it,” which
the Lord God had not spoken!] Τι ОЙН (moth tahmuth) thou shalt
most certainly die, were the words of the Lord God.

Thus she changes a certainty into a contingency.

See this verse under the figure of Synecdoche.

Gen. 3:16.-“Unto the woman He said multiplying, | will multiply thy
sorrow, etc.,” i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “ will greatly multiply.”

Gen. 28:22.-Hebrew, “Tithing, will | tithe for thee,” i.e., as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “I
will surely give the tenth unto thee.”

Gen. 37:33.-“Joseph is without doubt torn in pieces.”
The Heb. is δΐό δῖό (taroph, toraph), tearing, he is torn. The
figure employed shows the intensity of Jacob’s feelings. He exclaims:
“The tunic of my son!
А йа beast hath devoured him!
Tearing-Joseph is torn.”
Le., he hath been certainly killed or cruelly mangled.
Exo. 3:16.-“l have surely visited you.” Hebrew, visiting | have visited
you.
Exo. 19:12.-Here the figure is translated: “He ... shall be surely put to
death.” Lit., stoning, he shall be stoned.
So verse 13: “He shall surely be stoned.”
Jos. 24:10.-“But | would not hearken unto Balaam: therefore he
blessed you still.” Hebrew, blessing, he blessed you: i.e., he kept
blessing you, or he surely blessed you, or he did nothing but bless
you, or he blessed you exceedingly.

2Ki. 3:23.-“The kings are surely slain.” Hebrew, destroying they are
destroyed.

Psa. 118:18.-“The Lord hath chastened me sore.” Hebrew, Jah
chastening hast chastened me.

Isa. 6:9.-“Hear ye indeed.” Hebrew, Hear ye in hearing. “And see ye
indeed.” Hebrew, “See ye in seeing,” etc.

On four occasions is this great dispensational prophecy repeated
in the New Testament in order to emphasise and call attention to the
great change which was about to take place.

1. Mat. 13:14. Mar. 4:12. Luk. 8:4.

2. Joh. 12:39-40.

3. Act. 28:25-27,

4. Rom. 11:8.
Thus, seven times in all, this great prophecy is written down by the
Holy Spirit in the Scriptures of Truth.

See Mat. 11:15 above (page 269).
Jer. 22:10.-“Weep sore for him that goeth away.” Hebrew, weeping
weep.
Jer. 23:17.-“They say still unto them that despise me,” etc. Hebrew,
saying they say: i.e., they maintain, or they keep saying, etc.
Dan. 11:13.-“He shall certainly come.” Hebrew, coming he shall
come.
Zec. 8:21.-“Let us go speedily.” Hebrew, going let us go.
Mat. 13:13.-“Because they seeing see not, and hearing they hear
not”: i.e., they are determined not to hear and not to see.

See also Mar. 4:12. Luk. 8:10. Joh. 12:40. Act. 28:26; and Rom.
11:8 : where Isa. 6:9 is quoted.
Act. 7:34.-Here the figure of Polyptoton is translated as though it were
Epizeuxis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). Lit. it is “Seeing | have seen”:
i.e., | have surely seen.
Act. 28:26-27.-See Mat. 13:13.
Rom. 11:8.-See Mat. 13:13.
Rom. 12:15.-In this verse we have two examples of the repetition of
the infinitive and participle.

“Rejoice with them that do rejoice (xaipeiv μετὰ Χαιρόντων,
chairein meta chairontqdbn), and weep with them that weep (κλαίειν
μετὰ κλαιόντων, klaiain meta klaiontdbn).”

Two other figures are combined here-Homoeopropheron and
Homeeoptoton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

Heb. 6:14.-“Surely blessing | will bless thee, and multiplying | will
multiply thee”: i.e., Surely in blessing | will most certainly bless thee,
etc.

(b) In strong negation
Gen. 3:4.-“And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely
die.”

Here the serpent emphatically denies Jehovah’s words, and says,
dying thou shalt not die.
He is thus introduced to us in his special sphere-denying the Word
of God. For he is the god of this world’s religion and not of its crimes
and immoralities. And his sphere is in the corruption of the truth rather
than in the degradation of the flesh.* [Note: See The Silence of God,
by Robert Anderson, LL.D., C.B., published by Hodder and
Stoughton.]

Exo. 5:23.-“Thou hast not delivered them at all.”

Thus beautifully is the figure rendered. Hebrew, delivering thou
hast not delivered them.

Exo. 34:7.-“And wilt by no means clear the guilty.” Hebrew, clearing
thou wilt not clear. Even so the Substitute of the Lord’s people was
not cleared. When he bore their sins he bore the punishment also that
was due to them.

Psa. 49:7 (8).-“None of them can by any means redeem his brother.”

Thus beautifully is the figure rendered, which the R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] has not attempted to improve.

Hebrew, a brother redeeming doth not redeem a man: i.e., even
though he pay down the price there is no redemption.
3. Verbs with cognate noun
A verb and a cognate noun are used together, when great emphasis is
placed upon the assertion or expression. It is a kind of superlative
degree in verbs to declare the magnitude and gravity of an action or
the greatness and importance of its results.
Gen. 1:11.-“Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed.”
Lit., seeding seed. Thus emphasizing the fact that trees, etc., were
created bearing the seeds: and not the seeds producing the trees. The
hen was created producing the egg, and not the egg producing the
hen. Thus, at the very outset of the Word of God, the modern figment
of “evolution” is exploded.
Gen. 8:21.-“And the Lord smelled a sweet savour.” Lit., smelled the
sweet smell, or the savour of rest: {6., Jehovah accepted the
sacrifice, and was satisfied with the atonement made by Noah.

The figure of Anthrapopatheia (q.v. [Note: Which see] ) is
involved.
Gen. 27:3.-“Take me some venison.” Lit., hunt me some hunting, {6.,
fetch me some game.

The Ixx. similarly expresses it θήρευσόν µοι θήραν.

Venison, so called from the Latin venatio, to hunt.
Gen. 27:33.-“And Isaac trembled very exceedingly.”
Thus beautifully is the Hebrew figure turned into an English idiom.
The Hebrew is: “And Isaac trembled with a great trembling
greatly.” (See margin).
Gen. 27:34.-“And ... Esau ... cried with a great and exceeding bitter
cry.”
Gen. 28:20.-“And Jacob vowed a vow,” i.e., solemnly vowed.
Gen. 30:8.-“And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have | wrestled
with my sister.” Lit., “with wrestlings of God, have | wrestled with my
sister’; where we have another figure, Enallage, by which the Noun “of
God?” is used instead of the adjective “great,” denoting therefore “with
very great and super-human wrestlings have | wrestled.” (See
Enallage).
Gen. 35:14.-“And Jacob set up a pillar lé6a i64a (vayatzev
maitzevah), lit., and he pillared a pillar. So verse 20.* [It seems clear
that this should be the reading also in Gen. 33:20, where we have the
same verb bbb (vayatzev), which means {ο stand or rear up, as
one lifts and sets up a (single) memorial stone which we now call a
Е
“menhir.” But the noun is different §)Lb:(mizbeach), which means an
altar. Some ancientan altar. Some ancientscribe either mistook
matzevah (a pillar) and wrote mizbeach (an altar), or the noun was
originally abbreviated by the use of the initial letter 7 (mem) and was
afterwards filled out incorrectly. Because the verb that always goes
with altar is tot (banah), to build, as with bricks, etc. (except in Gen.
35:1; Gen. 35:3 and Exo. 30:1, where it is oe (asah), to make; and
1Ki. 16:32, where it is eV] (kum), to raise or set up as a building, and
not O'OLL (natzav), fo stand up as a pillar).]
Num. 4:23.-“All that enter in to serve the service to work the work in
the Tabernacle of the congregation.”
Num. 11:4.-“And the mixt multitude that was among them fell a
lusting.” Hebrew, lusted a lust: {6., lusted exceedi
Num. 16:30.-“But if the Lord make a new thing.” Hebrew, create a
creation: i.e., do something wonderful.
1Sa. 4:5.-“All Israel shouted with a great shout”: i.e., with a very loud
and prolonged or sustained cry.
2Sa. 12:16.-“And David fasted,” Jit, fasted a fast: i.e., completely or
truly fasted.

2Sa. 13:36.-“And all his servants wept very sore.” In Hebrew the figure
is “wept a great weeping greatly.”

1Ki. 1:40.-“The people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with great
joy”: i.e., their joy scarcely knew bounds.

2Ki. 4:13.-“Thou hast been careful for us with all this care”: ie.,
exceedingly careful.
2Ki. 13:14.-“Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness”: i.e., was
exceeding sick so that he died.

2Ki. 19:7.-“He shall hear a rumour,” lit, hear a hearing, * [Note: See
Metonymy (of adjunct).] ie., he shall hear important news, something
that will upset his plans.

Psa. 14:5; Psa. 53:5.-“There were they in great fear.” The Figure is
“they feared a fear.”

Psa. 144:6.-“Cast forth lightning.” Heb., lighten lightning, i-e., lighten
exceedingly, and destroy them.

Pro. 30:24.-“Wise, made wise.” Here, the emphasis created by the
repetition in the form of Polyptoton, makes a superlative adjective and
is beautifully and idiomatically rendered “exceeding wise.”

Man is by nature ignorant. He is born more ignorant than the
beasts. He has, therefore, to be “made wise”; and, in spiritual things,
this can be done only by the Holy Spirit of God.

Isa. 8:12.-“Neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid (i.e., fearful).
Sanctify the Lord of hosts Himself, and let Him be your fear.”

Isa. 22:17.-“Behold, the Lord will carry thee away with a mighty
captivity.” This verse and the next are very difficult, as is attested by a
comparison of the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] with their marginal readings. The above words are literally,
“Behold, Jehovah will hurl thee with the hurling of a [strong] man.”
The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] expresses it: “The Lord
will hurl thee away violently.”
Jer. 22:16.-“He judged the cause.” Lit., He judged the judgment; i.e.,
righteously judged.

So Lam. 3:59.
Jer. 51:2.-“And will send unto Babylon fanners (créi, zareem) that
shall fan her lerla, vzerbiaha).”
Eze. 18:2.-“What mean ye that ye use this proverb? Heb.: juééi
rulaia é (mishleem eth-hammahshal). Lit., ye proverb this
proverb, i.e., ye have this proverb in constant use.
Eze. 38:12.-“То take a spoil, and to take a prey.” Lit., to spoil spoil
and to prey prey; i.e., to take great spoil and a great prey.
Dan. 11:3.-“A mighty King shall stand up that shall rule with a great
rule”; {6., have a vast dominion.
Jon. 1:10.-“Then were the men exceedingly afraid.” Lit., feared with
great fear.

Mic. 2:4.-‘In that day shall one take up a parable against you, and
lament with a lamentation of lamentations”: {6., shall exceedingly
lament. Or, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] “lament with a doleful lamentation.” See
below, page 284.

Nah. 1:15 (2:1.).-“Keep thy solemn feasts.” Hebrew, Feast thy solemn
feasts.

The figure gives a superlative degree, as it were, to the verb,
implying that, before this, feasts had only been formally observed:
henceforth they are to be truly celebrated.

Hab. 3:2.-Ὁ Lord, | have heard thy speech, and was afraid.” Hebrew,
| have heard hearing of thee, i.e., | have heard thy fame.

Zec. 1:2.-“The Lord hath been sore displeased with your fathers.” The
figure is thus beautifully rendered. Lit., it is “Jehovah hath been
displeased with displeasure with your fathers.”

Verse 14. Ч am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great
jealousy,” {6., | am exceedingly jealous.
Verse 15. “I am very sore displeased with the heathen that are at
ease.” Lit., “with a great wrath am | wroth.”
Zec. 7:9.-“Execute true judgment.” Thus elegantly is the figure
expressed: “Judge judgment of truth.” See Joh. 7:24.

This Hebrew idiom appears in the New Testament, showing that
though the words are Greek the thoughts and idioms are Hebrew.
(See under Idioma).
Mat. 2:10.-“They rejoiced with exceeding great joy.” (ἐχάρησαν
χαράν, echareesan charan).

See this verge under Ellipsis.

Mar. 4:41.-“They feared exceedingly” (ἐφοβήθησαν — ФОВом,
ephobeetheesan phobon). Lit., they feared a fear.

Luk. 22:15.-“With desire | have desired to eat this passover with
you.”

Having translated the figure literally in the Text, the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] half
repents it, and gives the English idiom in the margin, “/ have heartily
desired.”

Joh. 6:28.-“What shall we do that we might work the works of God?”
i.e., might really do what God wills us to do.

Joh. 7:24.-“Judge righteous judgment” (τὴν δικαίαν κρίσιν κρίνατε,
teen dikaian krisin krinate). See Zec. 7:9.

Act. 23:12.-“Certain of the Jews banded together, and bound
themselves under a curse.” (Marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] , or, with an
oath of execration).
And then, in verse 14, to emphasize this, they say, “We have
bound ourselves under a great curse.” ἀναθέματι ἀνεθεμαήσαμεν.
(anathemati anethematisamen.) Lit., we have vowed a great vow.

Anathematizo means to devote, and so to separate from;
especially to devote to destruction.

Eph. 6:18.-“Praying always with all prayer,” i.e., earnestly praying.
Col. 2:19.-“Increaseth with the increase of God” (αὔξει τὴν αὔξησιν,
auxei teen auxeesin). Lit, increaseth the increase, i.e., receives
abundant increase from God, or worthy of God: or, receives Divine
increase.

1Ti. 1:18.-“That thou ... mightest war a good warfare” (στρατεύῃ
στρατείαν, strateuee strateian). This comes also under the figure of
Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).

2Ti. 4:7.-“| have fought a good fight” (τὸν ἀγῶνα τὸν καλὸν
ἠγώνισμαι, ton адфпа ton kalon eegapnismai): i.e., | have earnestly
fought the good fight.

Jam. 5:17.-“He prayed earnestly.” This is the beautiful rendering of the
figure προσευχῇ προσηύξατο (proseuchee proseeuxato) with prayer
he prayed. See Paronomasia.
Rev. 16:9.-“And men were scorched with great heat.” Lit., burnt with
great burning, i.e., exceedingly burnt.

Rev. 17:6.- wondered with great wonder’ (A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
admiration), i.e., | wondered exceedingly.

This figure exists even when the noun is absent through the figure
of Ellipsis:

Num. 11:14.-1 am not able to bear [the burden ой all this people
alone, because it, [/.e., the burden] is too heavy for me.”

Verse 17 shows that the word burden is implied; and that Moses
means, | am not able to bear the heavy burden of all this People
alone. (See under Ellipsis, page 56).

Psa. 13:3.-Here the noun is actually supplied in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] “Sleep
the sleep of death,” i.e, sleep the last solemn sleep of death.

4. Verbs with other parts of speech. (Combined Polyptoton)
Isa. 24:16.-“My leanness, my leanness,* [Note: This is the figure of
Epizeuxis (q.v.).] woe unto me! the treacherous dealers have dealt
treacherously; yea, the treacherous dealers have dealt very
treacherously.”

Here, from the two roots “deal” and “treachery” is heaped together

this variety of inflections, to enhance the result of the enemy’s
treatment.
Hos. 10:1 (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).-“Israel is a
luxuriant vine, which putteth forth his fruit: according to the
multitude of his fruit he hath multiplied his altars, according to the
goodness of his land they have made goodly pillars” ({6., images).
Here, in the repetition of the various inflections of the words “fruit,”
“multiply,” and “good,” and in the repetition of “according to”
(Anaphora), and in the repetition of sense in “altars” and “images,” our
attention is arrested and drawn to the fact that prosperity only led the
People astray into idolatry.
2Co. 10:12.-“For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or
compare ourselves with some that commend themselves: but they
measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves
among themselves, are not wise.

This is still more emphatic when we see the structure of this verse.

а — For we are not bold (οὐ)

b — ю number (ἐγκρῖναι) or compare (συγκρῖναι) ourselves
ο with certain of them that commend themselves:
ο but they themselves, measuring themselves by
themselves,
b and comparing (συγκρίνοντες) themselves with
themselves

а are without understanding (οὐ).

Here in “a” and “a” we have the declaration, in “a” as to what we
are not, and in “a” as to what they are not.
In “b” and “b” we have comparison (συγκρίνω).

In “c” and “c” we have commending and measuring.

Note also that in “b” and “c” the pronoun occurs once, while in the
corresponding members it is answered by a double occurrence.

For the meaning of the verb “compare,” see below under

adjectives (page 284), and also under Ellipsis, page 77.
Gal. 5:7-10.-“Ye did run well: who did hinder you that ye should not
obey (πείθεσθαι, peithesthai) the truth? This persuasion (πεισµονή,
peismonee) cometh not of him that calleth you ... A little eaven
leaveneth* [Note: Another example of Polyptoton.] the whole lump. |
have confidence (πέποιθα, pepoitha) in you through the Lord, that ye
will be none otherwise minded.

Here we have three forms of the same word, or three words from
the same root. This is lost in the translation. ΓΠΠείθω (peithd) is more
than to believe, it is to be persuaded, to hold or hold on to a belief.
Hence, πεῖσμα (peisma) denotes a ship’s cable, by which it holds on,
and in which it trusts, while πεισµονή is a holding on, here (in verse 8)
evidently a holding on to one’s own views with obstinacy.

Perhaps the word “confidence” may best be repeated: “who did
hinder you that ye should not have confidence in the truth? This
self-confidence cometh not of him that calleth you ... but | have
confidence in you,” etc.
Eph. 1:3.-“Blessed (εὐλογητός, eulogeetos) be the God and Father of
our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed (0 εὔλογησας, ho
eulogeesas) us with all spiritual blessings (εὐλογία, eulogia) in
heavenly places (or spheres) in Christ”: i.e., who hath richly blessed
us with all, etc.
Il. Nouns and Pronouns

1. Nouns repeated in different cases
Eze. 28:2.-“Son of man, say unto the prince of Tyrus, Thus saith the
Lord God (Adonai Jehovah): Because thine heart (GAC) is lifted up,
and thou hast said | am a God, | sit in the seat of God (2Th. 2:4) in
the heart (aéa, {8., in the heart) of the seas; yet thou art a man and
not God, though thou set thine heart (248) as the heart (GEA) of
God.”
Joh. 3:13.-“And no man hath ascended up to heaven (εἰς τὸν
οὐρανόν, eis ton ouranon), but He that came down from heaven (ἐκ
τοῦ οὐρανοῦ, ek tou ouranou), even the Son of Man which is (or was)
in heaven (6 ®v ἐν τῷ oUpava, ho фп en @ ouranq).”

It is to be remembered that the last clause is doubtful. “Many
ancient authorities omit it,” as the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] remarks in the margin.
But, taking it as it stands, we have the three inflections of the word
“heaven,” calling our attention to a great fact that no one has ever
gone up to heaven that is by his own act (see Pro. 30:4), for the verb
“ascended” is active: and the tense is the Perfect, meaning no one
hath ascended up, and is in heaven. The verb, too, is πορευθείς
(poreutheis), intimating a leisurely journey, not an instantaneous
rapture.

It does not deny that men like Enoch and Elijah had been taken up
by God, which is a very different thing.

And then the expression 6 ὤν (ho qpn) is difficult to express in
English. It is /it., the one being, but it means here not “who is,” but who
was in heaven, i.e., before He came down as stated in chap. 1:1, and
who shall again “ascend up where He was before” (chap. 6:62).

So in chap. 1:18, it should be rendered “which was in the bosom of
the Father.”

Compare, for this sense, chaps, 9:25; 19:38. Luk. 24:44. 2Co. 8:9.
And see above, under Ellipsis (page 22), and Heterosis.

Rom. 4:18.-“Who against hope believed in hope (map ἐλπίδα ἐπ]
éATridi, par elpida ep elpidi).
Rom. 11:36.-“For of Him, and through Him, and to Him are all
things.”
Gal. 2:19-20.-“For | through the law am dead (died) to the law (ἐγὼ
yap διὰ. νόµου νόμῳ ἀπέθανον, едф gar dia nomou noma
apethanon), that | might live (ζήσω, геезф) unto God. | am crucified
with Christ: nevertheless I live (ζῶ, zqb); yet not | but Christ liveth (2,
zee) in me, and that [/ife] which | now live (ζῶ, 2ф) in the flesh ! live
(ζῶ, 2ф) by the faith of the Son of God.”

See further on this verse under the figure of Epanadiplosis.

2. Nouns repeated in different numbers
(a) In singular and plural

Psa. 68:15-16 (16, 17).-In the Hebrew it is clearer than in the English,
because what in English requires two or more words, in Hebrew is
only one word, or a compound word.

“A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan.

A mountain of mountain peaks is the mountain of Bashan.
Why look ye askance (or envy) ye mountain peaks.

At the mountain which God hath desired for His abode?

Yea, the Lord will dwell in it for ever.”

Thus, is the Hill of Zion specially marked out as the place which
Jehovah chose for His House.

Isa. 2:11.-The lofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the
haughtiness of men shall be bowed down.

So also in verse 17, where the singular and plural are used
together (as here) to emphasize the far reaching effects of the day of
the Lord, here (verse 12) mentioned for the first time in the Bible.

In other places also we have the same figure: and it tells us that
God makes a distinction between “man” and “men,” opposite to that
which the world makes.

As for “man” God has condemned him root and branch, while the
world would deify him.

As for “men” God saves and blesses them with an everlasting
salvation, while the world makes very little of “men” as individuals, and
indeed pursues them with persecutions, and fights against them with
“wars and hatreds.”

See further on this whole passage, under the figures of
Polysyndeton and Synonymia.
Jer. 15:16.-“Thy words were found, and | did eat them; and thy word
was unto me the joy and rejoicing of mine heart.”

Here the two numbers (sing. [Note: ing. The Singular Number.]
and pl. [Note: |. The Plural Number.] ) in close conjunction, bring out
the contrast between the separate “words” and the “word” of God as a
whole.

Compare Joh. 17:8; Joh. 17:14; Joh. 17:17.

(b) In singular and genitive plural

A noun is repeated in the genitive plural in order to express very
emphatically the superlative degree which does not exist in Hebrew.
See under Idiom.
Thus this figure is a kind of Enallage (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), or
exchange, by which a noun in the genitive plural, is used instead of a
superlative adjective.

Gen. 9:25.-“A servant of servants shall [Canaan] be”: i.e., the lowest
and most degraded of servants, or the most abject slave.

Exo. 26:33, etc.-“Holy of holies.” In A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] : “the most holy.”
Num. 3:32.-“Chief of the chief.” In A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] : “chief over the
chief.”

Deu. 10:17.-“For Jehovah your Elohim is Elohai of the Elohim, and
Adonai of the Adonim, a great ΕΙ.”" [Note: See in Divine Names and
Titles, by the same author and publisher.]

In A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
this is rendered, “The Lord your God is God of Gods, and Lord of
Lords, a great God,” etc.
1Ki. 8:27.-The heaven and heaven of heavens cannot contain thee”:
ie., the highest heaven.”
Ecc. 1:2, etc.-“Vanity of vanities’: i.e., the greatest vanity.

Song Son. 1:1.-“The song of songs,” i.e., the most beautiful or
excellent song.

Dan. 2:37. Eze. 26:17.-“A king of kings”: {6., the most mighty king.
Dan. 2:47.-“God of gods”: i.e., the great, living, or true God. The most
mighty God.

Dan. 8:25.-“The Prince of princes”: {6., the most powerful Prince.
Hos. 10:15.-“So shall Bethel do unto you because of your great
wickedness.” The figure is here translated, and given in the margin
“Hebrew, the evil of your evil.”

Mic. 2:4.-‘A lamentation of lamentations,” /.е., a great lamentation.
See above, page 278.

Php. 3:5.-“A Hebrew of the Hebrews,” i.e., a thorough Hebrew. See
this verse under Asyndeton.

1Ti. 6:15.-“The King of kings, and Lord of lords.” Compare Rev.
17:14; Rev. 19:16.

Rev. 1:6.-“The ages of the ages,” i.e., to the remotest age, for ever
and ever.
Ill. Adjectives
Joh. 1:11.-“He came unto His own, (τὰ ἴδια, ta idea; 1.е., his own
possessions, neuter) and His own (οἱ ἴδιοι, hoi idioi, i.e., His own
people, masculine), received Him not.”
1Со. 2:13.-“Comparing spiritual things with spiritual.” In the Greek it
is πνευματικοῖς πνευματικὰ συγκρίνοντες (pneumatikois pneumatika
sunkrinontes), i.e., to spiritual persons spiritual things declaring.

Or, as in the English order, “declaring (sunkrinontes, see Num.
15:34) spiritual things (pneumatika, neuter plural) to spiritual persons
(pneumatikois, masculine gender dative plural).* [Note: Compare
chap. 3:1; and see The Mystery, by the same author and publisher.
And see under Ellipsis, page 77.]
2Co. 9:8.-“And God is able to make all (πᾶσαν, pesan), grace abound
toward you; that ye always having all sufficiency in all things (παντὶ
πάντοτε πᾶσαν, panti pantote pesan) may abound to every (all) (πᾶν,
pen) good work.”

(b) Repetition of the same word: in a Different Sense
Antanaclasis: or, Word-Clashing
Repetition of the same Word in the same Sentence, with Different
Meanings
Ant’-an-a-cla‘-sis, from ἀντί (anti), against or back, avd (ana), up, and
κλάσις (klasis), a breaking from κλάω (klaqb), to break. Hence, a
breaking up against. This name is given to this figure; because, when
a word has been used once in a sentence in its plain and natural
sense, it is used again in the same sentence in another sense which
breaks up against it. It is the use of the same word in the same
sentence in two different senses. It is essential to this figure that the
two words must be the same in spelling.* [Note: This differs from a
Homonym (see Appendix D), which is a different word though spelt in
the same way.] When they are similar in spelling but alike in sound,
the figure is known by another name, Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which
see] ).

It is in frequent use in all languages: e.g., “while we live, let us
live”: or “learn some craft while you are young that when you are old
you may live without craft.”

When the Declaration of American Independence was being
signed, Hancock said, “We must be unanimous; there must be no
pulling different ways.” “Yes,” said Franklin, “we must all hang
together, or most assuredly we shall all hang separately.”

A correspondent recently wrote concerning a certain subject: “The
more | think of it the less | think of it,” where the meaning is obvious.
With this figure we combine in our references the figure of
Ploce: or, Word-Folding
pronounced plo-kee. Greek πλοκή (plokee), a fold or plait, from
πλέκω (plekqp), to twine, twist, weave, or braid.

As in Antanaclasis, the same word is repeated in a different sense.
Only with Ploce that sense implies more than the first use of it. It often
expresses a property or attribute of it. “His wife is a wife indeed.” In
that great victory “C@sar was C@sar.” Lord Chatham says, speaking of
Oliver Cromwell, “He astonished mankind by his intelligence, yet did
not derive it from spies in the cabinet of every prince in Europe; he
drew it from the cabinet of his own sagacious mind. He observed
facts, and traced them forward to their consequences.”

In our examples from Scripture, we will not give two separate lists
of these figures, as it is often very difficult to classify them. In many of
the examples the reader will have, however, little difficulty in
distinguishing them. Other names are also used for this figure, either
synonymous, or referring to some special variation, or shade of
meaning. It is sometimes called HOMOGENE (ὁμογενής), hqo’mo-
genes, from ὁμός, the same, and γένος, kind: i.e., of the same family:
in the case of words from the same root or origin: and is thus more
appropriately confined to the figure Polyptoton (q.v. [Note: Which see.]
).

ANACLASIS, ап -а-с/1аз -15, a breaking back.

ANTISTASIS (ἀνήστασις), an-tis’-ta-sis, a standing against, or
opposition. So called because the one word stands against the other
in an opposite sense. In Rhetoric, the figure is used where an action is
defended by showing that something worse would have happened if it
had not been done.

DIALOGIA (di-a-log~-i-a), the interchange of words or of their
meanings.

In Latin the figure is called

REFRACTIO (re-frac’-ti-o), a breaking back; similar in meaning to
Antanaclasis.

RECIPROCATIO (re-cip’-ro-ca‘-ti-o), interchange of words or
meanings.
There are instances of two words being spelt exactly alike, and yet
having different meanings. These are called HOMONYMS. We can
hardly class them with Figures of Speech, because they are not used
as such, and are not used in Repetitions. We have, however, given a
list of the most important in Appendix D.
The following are examples of Antanaclasis, or Ploce:-

Jdg. 11:40.-“The daughters of Israel went from days to days to talk
with the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.”

Here, “days” is first used by Syncedoche for a year (i.e., year to
year), and afterwards literally for days of twenty-four hours (“four
days”). See under Synecdoche.

Jdg. 15:16.-The word cilf (hamar) means not only an ass, but a
mass (or heaps as the word is rendered) to imply that the Philistines
were to be no more regarded than asses:-

“With the jaw-bone of ап ass (hamopr),

A mass (Παπιφ/), yea, masses;* [Note: According to another
pointing of the same consonants (as exhibited in the Ixx.),
this line would read, “I have utterly destroyed them.” In this
case the Figure would be (not Antanaclasis) but Polyptoton
(q.v.): viz., Ixx., €iU@ebetis ἐϊὼδεόῦ exaleiphon exeeleipsa),
or Hebrew, ailr airuéi (cham ' г chamarteem). Thus
preserving the correspondence between the second and
fourth lines.]
With the jaw-bone of an ass,
| slew a thousand men.”
1Sa. 1:24.-“And the child was young.” Hebrew: And the child (anf,
naar) was a child (anf, naar). In English idiom we should put the
emphasis on “was.”

In the former case the word is used of the child Samuel; and in the
latter case, a child of tender age, (by the figure Synechdoche, q.v.
[Note: Which зее.] ‚ the word “child” is Used to denote the kind).

Psa. 141:5.-“It shall be an excellent oil (oil of the head) (fru, ‘rosh):
let not my head δό, roshee) reject it.

The first time it means the head, or head of hair; and the second
time it is put by Synecdoche (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) for the whole
body or person, i.e., let me not refuse it.

Isa. 37:18.-“Of a truth, Lord, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all
the nations (afrolu, ha-aratzoth, lands) and their countries (Ti,
artzam, land).” Here, the repeated word is Πὅ, land.
As the Text now stands, the word /ands is put by Metonomy (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]) for the inhabitants (but according to an alternative
reading in some MSS. it is actually nations, as it is the parallel
passage 2Ki. 19:17); and in the second, for their country which they
inhabited. Hence, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has translated the figure by giving
two different renderings, (“nations” and “countries”) of the one
repeated word “land.”

Isa. 58:10.-“If thou draw out thy soul to the hungry and satisfy the
afflicted soul.”

Here, the word “soul” is first put (by Metonymy) for the feelings of
kindness, liberality, and charity; and then (by Synecdoche) for the
person himself who is in trouble.

Isa. 66:3-4.-Here, the words of Jehovah are emphasized and
solemnised by the structure of the passage which exhibits Epanodos
or Chiasmos (q.v. [Νοίε: Which 5εε.] ); and the words when repeated
are used in another sense, the first time of the natural acts of men,
and the second by Anthropopatheia (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), of God.

а Their soul delighteth in their abominations.

Ь | also will choose their delusions and will bring their fears
upon them:
c Because when | called, none did answer:
с When | spake, they did not hear;
Ь — Ви! they did evil before mine eyes, and chose that
а In which | delighted not.
Here, in “a” and “a,” we have delighting: in “b” and “b,” the
choosing: while, in “c” and “c,” we have the reason given for each.
Jer. 7:18-19.-“That they may provoke me to anger. Do they provoke
me to anger? saith the Lord.”
In the first place, it is used of the act of the people in provoking
God: in the latter, it is used of the punishments inflicted. Do they
provoke me? No; they bring upon themselves the anger and fury of
Jehovah, as the next verse goes on to explain.

Jer. 8:14.-“Let us be silent there.” Thus the People propose to rest in
quietness and security in their sin. But the prophet answers them with
the same word in a different sense: “The Lord our God hath put us to
silence;” j.e., the silence of Divine punishment-the silence of death.
Jer. 34:17.-“Ye have not hearkened unto me, in proclaiming liberty ...
behold, | proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord.”

The people had refused to give “liberty” to the oppressed, which
He had commanded in verse 9. Therefore He will proclaim another
kind of liberty-liberty for the sword, and pestilence, and famine to
destroy them; as the context shows.

Eze. 20:24-26.-Here the figure is heightened by the structure of the
passage.

A а Because they had not executed my judgments,

b but had despised my statutes,
В апа had polluted my sabbaths ...
A Ь Wherefore | gave them statutes that were not good,
а and judgments whereby they should not live:
В — апа polluted them in their own gifts, etc.”

Mat. 8:22.-“Let the dead bury their dead.”

In the former place, the word refers to the spiritually dead, “dead in
sin’; in the latter, to those who have departed this mortal life.
Joh. 1:10.-“The world was made by Him (the Word), and the world
knew Him not.”

The former place refers to the created world, the latter to
unbelieving men.
Joh. 1:11.-“He came unto His own, and His own received Him not.”

In the former place, it refers to His own possessions (neuter
plural); in the latter, to His own people (masculine plural). See under
Polyptoton.
Joh. 2:23-24.-“Many believed (πιστεύειν, pisteuein) in His name,
when they saw the miracles which He did. But Jesus did not commit
himself (πιστεύειν, pisteuein) unto them.”

In the former place, the word “believed” means to assent to His
doctrines by a confession of faith; in the latter place, to trust as a
friend, to place confidence in. The words read therefore: “Many
believed in His name when they saw the miracles which He did. But
Jesus did not himself believe in them.”
Joh. 3:31.-“He that is of the earth (ἐκ τῆς γῆς, ek tees gees) is of the
earth (ἐκ τῆς γῆς, ek tees gees), and speaketh of the earth (ἐκ τῆς
γῆς, ek tees gees);” i.e., he that is of the earth (in respect to his
natural birth and origin) is of the earth (in respect to his nature) and
speaketh according (to his nature).
Joh. 4:31-32.-“His disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. But He
said unto them, | have meat to eat that ye know not of.”

In the former place, the word is used naturally of eating food; in the
latter, spiritually, of doing the Father’s will. See verse 34.
Joh. 19:22.-“What | have written, | have written.”

In the former place, it refers to the act of writing; in the latter, to the
writing which standeth written.
Rom. 2:12.-“As many as have sinned without law (ἀνόμως, anomaps)
shall also perish without law (ἀνόμως, апотф=). Here, in the former
case, it means not under the Law; in the latter, it means without the
judgment of the Law.
Rom. 2:26.-“If the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law,
shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision.”
In the former place, the word “uncircumcision” denotes the
Gentiles; and in the latter, their condition as fulfilling the requirements
of the Law. For this is the force of δικαίωµα (dikaiqma), which is not
righteousness as a state or condition, but the righteous requirements
of the Law.

Rom. 3:21.-“But now the righteousness of God without the law is
manifested, being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets.”

In the former case, the word denotes moral law (no article) without
the works of the law, as opposed to faith; in the latter case, the word
denotes the Mosaic Law (with article).

N.B.-There is no article before the word righteousness, so that it
means a Divine righteousness: the same as in chap. 1:17.

Rom. 3:27.-“Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? of
works? Nay; but by the law of faith.”

In the first place it refers to divine law; and in the second not to law
at all but to faith itself by the genitive of apposition, “the law, i.e., faith,”
as in 1:17. (See Appendix B).

Rom. 7:13.-“But sin, that it might appear sin.”
In the former place, sin is used of the old nature; while, in the latter
it is used of its real sinful nature and character.

Rom. 7:23.-“But | see another law in my members, warring against
the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin
which is in my members.”

In the first and third places, the word “law” refers to the old nature,
which is indwelling sin, because it once lorded it over him, though now
it only struggles to usurp again; in the second it refers to the divine law
(i.e., the new nature) implanted in him, which is contrary to the former,
and contests its claims.

Rom. 9:6.-“They are not all Israel which are of Israel.”

Here the former place refers to the true spiritual seed of Israel; the
latter denotes Israel according to the flesh, the natural descendants
from Israel's loins.

Rom. 12:13-14.-“Given (διώκοντες, αἰφκοπίες) to hospitality. Bless
them that persecute (διώκοντας, diqbkontas) you.”

The word διώκειν (αἰφκείη) is used in the former place, and means
to pursue or follow closely in a friendly sense; but, in the latter place, it
means the same in a hostile sense, to follow closely so as to
persecute.

In the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] , the figure is lost by translation. Literally, it is
“Follow up hospitality. Bless them that follow you up [fo injure you].
1Со. 11:24.-“And when He had given thanks, he brake it, and said,
Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you.”

Here the verb to break is used, in the former case, in its proper
signification: while, in the second place, it is used spiritually for the
sufferings and crucifixion of Christ; as is clear from Luk. 22:19, where
the word is “given.”
1Со. 15:28.-“And when all things shall be subdued (ὑποτάσσειν,
hupotassein) unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject
(ὑποτάσσειν, hupotassein) unto Him that put all things under Him.”

The verb means {ο arrange in order, but also to reduce to order.
The former sense is used of Christ, the latter of all others (as
explained on Psa. 110:1).* [Note: See Things to Come for October,
1898.]
1Со. 15:28.-“That put all things under him, that God may be all in all.”

In the first place “all” refers to all created things and beings; in the
second, to all universal power, “that God may be over all things; and,
in the third, it refers to all places.
“All,” being an adjective, must be associated with some noun
(expressed or implied) which it qualifies. Here the nouns are implied,
and the omission (see under Ellipsis) produces the figure of
Antanaclasis.
2Co. 5:21.-“For He hath made Him to be sin for us, who knew no sin.”

The order of the Greek is not ambiguous as is the English:-

“For He who knew no sin was made sin for us.” Here, in the
former place, it means “sin” in the ordinary acceptation of the word;
while in the latter place, it is put by Metonymy (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]
) for a sin-offering.

Eph. 1:3.-“Blessed (εὐλογητός, eulogeetos) be the God and Father of
our Lord Jesus Christ who hath blessed us (6 εὐλογήσας, ho
eulogeesas),” etc.

This is really Polyptoton. But here we repeat it in order to point out
that the word “blessed” is used in two different senses. We do not
bless God in the same way that He blesses us. The former word is
always used of God, the latter may be used of men. The former word
means the Being who is to be spoken well of, the latter means the
being of whom good has been lastingly spoken-especially by God
Himself.
1Ti. 6:5-6.-“Supposing that godliness is to be a way of making gain ...
but godliness with contentment Is a great way of making gain.”

Here the word πορισµός (porismos) is used in two opposite
associations. In the former case of what a false Christianity supposes
it to be; and in the second, what it really is.

Heb. 2:14.-“That through death he might destroy him that had the
power of death, that is, the devil.” Here, the first “death” is put by
Synecdoche, for the atoning results of Christ’s death: while the second
means the act and article of natural or physical death.

1Pe. 3:1.-“That, if any obey not the word [τῷ λόγῳ, tq Ιοοφ: i.e., the
Gospel], they also may without the word [λόγου, /ogou: i.e., speaking
or talking] be won by the conversation of the wives.”

Syneeceiosis; or, Cohabitation
The Repetition of the same Word in the same Sentence with an
Extended Meaning
Syn’-oe-cei-o-sis from σύν (sun), together with, and οἰκείωσις
(οἰκείφςίς), dwelling in the same house.

This figure is so called because two words are used, and in the
general sense, but with a different and more extended signification.
They dwell together as it were in the same house; and yet, while one
speaker takes up the word and uses it in the same sense, he yet
means a different thing.

The Latins called it COHABITATIO, cohabitation, a dwelling
together.

Mat. 5:19.-“Whosoever ... shall break one of these least
commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least
in the kingdom of heaven.”

In the former place, the allusion is to the distinction which the
Pharisees made between different commandments (just as Rome has
since made the distinction between “venial” and “mortal” sins). There
is no such distinction, and therefore, when in the latter place Christ
says “he shall be called the least,” He means that he will not be there
at all, for there will be no such distinction there. There is no least in
either case.

Mat. 18:1.-“Who, in that case, is the greatest in the kingdom of
heaven?” In verse 4 Christ answers, “Whosoever shall humble himself
as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven.”

In the former place the disciples use the word in its ordinary sense
of pre-eminence. But in the latter place Christ (alluding to the former
sense) means that no one except Himself has ever humbled Himself
thus: and who is to dispute that He must be greatest in that kingdom.
The occasion also is important; compare verse 1 with 17:24-27.
Mat. 19:16-17.-“And behold one came and said unto him, Good
Master, what good thing shall | do that | may have eternal life? And
He said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but
one, that is God.”

In the former case, the young man uses the word “good” of mere
creature goodness, such as he supposed Christ to have; while in the
latter case, the Lord alludes to the first, using the word in the same
sense, but not in the same way; thus teaching that there is no real
“good” apart from God-no “good” except that which comes from God
and returns to Him.

Joh. 6:28-29.-“What shall we do that we might work the works* [Note:
See Polyptoton.] of God? Jesus answered ... them, This is the work
of God, that ye believe on Him whom He hath sent.”

In the former case, the word “works” is used by the Jews in its
proper acceptation: it is repeated by Christ in the same sense, but with
another meaning altogether, as He goes on to explain.

Act. 26:28-29.-Here the apostle repeats the word “almost” (or “with
little” R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ) in the same sense, but
with a far higher and more extended meaning.
Syllepsis; or, Combination

The Repetition of the Sense without the Repetition of the Word
Syl-lep’-sis, from σύν (sun), together with, and λῆψις (leepsis) a
taking.

This name is given to the figure when only one word is used, and
yet it takes on two meanings at the same time.

The word itself is used only once; and ought to be, but is not
repeated in the next clause, being omitted by Ellipsis (q.v. [Note:
Which see.] ), but the two meanings are taken together with the one
word.

It is called SYNESIS (Syn’-e-sis), a joining or meeting together,
and SYNTHESIS (Syn -the-sis), a putting together, compounding,
from σύν (sun), together, and Τίθηµι (titheemi), to put or place.

The Syllepsis here considered is rhetorical rather than
grammatical (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). There is a form of Syllepsis
which involves change rather than addition. It will be found therefore
under those figures in our third division.
2Ch. 31:8.-“They blessed the Lord and his people Israel.”

Here there is a duplex statement. They blessed the Lord, that is
they gave Him thanks and celebrated His praises; and they blessed
His People Israel; but in a different way; they prayed for all spiritual
and temporal blessings for them in the name of the Lord.

Two meanings are thus given to the word, which is used only
once. The sense is repeated, but not the word, and the sense is not
the same in each case.

Joe. 2:13.-“Rend your heart, and not your garments.”

Here the word “rend” is used only once, but with two significations:
in the former sentence it is used figuratively; in the latter literally-the
heart not being rent in the same sense in which garments are rent.

3. Of Different Words
(a) In a similar order (and in the same sense)
Symploce; or, Intertwining
The Repetition of different Words in successive Sentences in the
same Order and the same Sense

Sym -plo-kee’, from σύν (sun), together with, and πλοκή (plokee), a
folding. An intertwining of two different words in a similar order: one at
the beginning and the other at the end of successive sentences.

It is a combination of Anaphora (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) and
Epistrophe (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

The Latins called it COMPLEXIO, combination, and
COMPLICATIO, a folding together.

When phrases or sentences are thus repeated, instead of single
words, it is called Coenotes (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
Though there may be more than one word in the English, it does
not follow that there is more than one in the original.
Isa. 2:7-8.-We have it in alternate lines:

“Their land also is full of silver and gold,

Neither is there any end of their treasures;

Their land is also full of horses.

Neither is there any end of their chariots;
Their land also is full of idols, etc.”
Isa. 65:13-14.-‘Thus saith the Lord God,

“Behold my servants shall eat,

But ye shall be hungry.
Behold my servants shall drink,
But ye shall be thirsty.
Behold my servants shall rejoice,
But ye shall be ashamed.
Behold my servants shall sing for joy of heart,
But ye shall cry for sorrow of heart.”
In the last two lines we have Epistrophe in the word heart.
Jer. 9:23 (22).-Here, in the Hebrew, the three sentences begin, “Let
him not glory’ (fE|GUAEE, al-yithhalleyl), and each ends with the
pronominal suffix {, his.
1Co. 12:4-6.-Here in the Greek each verse begins With “diversities”
or differences (διαιρέσεις, diaireseis), and ends with “the same”
(αὐτός, autos).
1Co. 14:15.-Here the two words repeated and emphasized by
Symploce are “the spirit” and “the understanding.”
1Co. 15:42-44.-Here we have four pairs, a kind of double Anaphora.
“It is sown in corruption;
It is raised in incorruption.
It is sown in dishonour;
It is raised in glory.
It is sown in weakness;
It is raised in power.
It is sown a natural body;
It is raised a spiritual body.”
2Co. 9:6.-Here the Greek exhibits a beautiful example of this figure.
“He that soweth sparingly, sparingly shall reap also:
He that soweth bountifully, bountifully shall reap also.”
With this is combined the figure of Anadiplosis (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ), in the repetition of the words “sparingly” and “bountifully.”
Rev. 18:21-23.-To emphasize the complete overthrow of Babylon six
times we have the repeated words “no more.”
Babylon ... shall be found no more at all,
and the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and
trumpeters shall be heard in thee no more at all.

and no craftsman, of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found in
thee any more at all:

and the sound of a millstone shall be heard in thee no more
at all.

and the light of a candle shall shine in thee no more at all:

and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be
heard in thee no more at all.”

Here we have Anastrophe (i.e., Polysyndeton) combined with
Epistrophe.
(b) In a different order (but the same sense)
Epanodos; or, Inversion
The Repetition of the same Words in an inverse Order (but same
Sense)
E-pan’-o-dos is from ἐπί (epi), upon, ava (ana), back, and ὁδός
(hodos), a way, and means a way back again, or more simply a return.

After two, three, or more words have been mentioned, they are
repeated, not in the same order again, but backward.

The Latins called it REGRESSIO, i.e., regression, and INVERSIO,
ie., inversion.

When propositions are inverted and thus contrasted, and not
merely the words, the figure is called ANTIMETABOLE (see the next
figure).

When only the subject matter is thus related it is called
CHIASMUS (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), though this may also be called
an Epanodos. This we have given under Correspondence. When
words or phrases are repeated in this inverse order it is called
SYNANTESIS, a meeting together.

Gen. 10:1-31.-

а 1-. Shem,

Ь -1-. Ham,
ο -1. and Japheth.
ο 2-5. The sons of Japheth.
Ь — 6-20. The sons of Ham.
a 21-91. The sons of Shem.
Exo. 9:31.-
а “And the flax
Ь — апа the barley was smitten,
Ь for the barley was in the ear,
а and the flax was bolled.”
Isa. 6:10.-
а “Make the heart of this people fat,
Ь — апа make their ears heavy,
ο — апа shut their eyes;
ο. lest they see with their eyes,
Ь — ап{ hear with their ears,

a — апа understand with their heart.”

Rom. 2:14.-“Which have not the law (ur) уброу, mee nomon) ... these
having not the law (уброу μὴ, nomon mee).” The figure, which does
not appear in the English, shows us that in the former sentence we
are to place the emphasis on the word “not,” and in the latter on the
word “law.”

N.B.-The words “by nature” must be read with “who have not the
law,” and not with the verb “do.” Gentiles by nature are not under the
Law of Moses, yet they do many things unconsciously in accordance
with it; and so far, they endorse it, and condemn themselves. The
keeping of this law can no more save them than the law of Moses can
save the Jews. All are under sin (3:9), the Gentile (chap. 1), the Jew
(chap. 2), and all alike guilty before God (3:19).

2Co. 1:3.-

а “Blessed be God,

Ь even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Ь — the Father of mercies,
а and the God of all comfort.”
3Jn. 1:11.-
а “Follow not that which is evil,
b but that which is good.
Ь — He that doeth good is of God;
а — But he that doeth evil hath not seen God.”
For further illustration see under Correspondence.
Antimetabole; or, Counterchange
Epanodos, with Contrast or Opposition
An ‘-ti-me-tab-o-lee, from ἀντί (anti), against, µετά (meta), reversely,
and βάλλειν (ballein), to throw.
This figure repeats the word or words in a reverse order, for the
purpose of opposing one thing to another, or of contrasting two or
more things. It is the figure of Epanodos with this special added object
of opposing words against one another.

It is also called DIALLELON, from διά (dia), through, and λαλέω
(laleo), to speak, to say (or place by speaking) one thing against
another. Also METATHESIS, Me-tath’-e-sis, i.e., transposition, from
µετά (meta), beyond, or over, and пп (titheemi), to place. This
name is also given in Etymology, where /etters are transposed. The
Latins called # COMMUTATIO, commutation, i.e., changing about.
Gen. 4:4-5.-

а And the Lord had respect

b unto Abel and to his offering:
Ь But unto Cain, and his offering

а — he had not respect.
2Ch. 32:7-8.-

а — There be more with us

Ь — than with him;
Ь With him is an arm of flesh,

а but with us is the Lord our God.
Isa. 5:20.-“Woe unto them that call

evil
good, and
good
evil;
that put darkness
for light,
and light for
darkness;
that put bitter
for sweet,
and sweet for
bitter.”
Isa. 55:8.-
а — “For my thoughts
b — аге not your thoughts,
Ь neither are your ways
а my ways, saith the Lord.”
In verse 9 these words are in their natural order.
In verses 8 and 9 taken together, the figure is a simple Epanodos:
а “For my thoughts are not your thoughts,
Ь Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord.
Ь — For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my
ways higher than your ways,
а and my thoughts than your thoughts.”
Here in a and a we have “thoughts”; while in b and b we have
“ways.”
Further, there is another involved Epanodos in b and b, between
the “my” and “your”; as there is between a and b.
Mar. 2:27.-
а “The sabbath
b was made for man,
Ь — апа not man for
а — е sabbath.”
Joh. 8:47.-
а “He that is of God,
Ь heareth God's words,
Ь — уе therefore hear them not (i.e., the words)
а because ye are not of God.”
Joh. 15:16.-
а “Ye have not chosen
Ь — me,
b but!
а have chosen you.”
Joh. 14:17.-“Even the Spirit of Truth;
а whom the world cannot receive,
Ь because it seeth him not,
ο neither knoweth him:
с but ye know him;
Ь for he dwelleth with you,
а and shall be in you.”
Here the words are not repeated in b and c, but the fact is stated
as to seeing and receiving
1Co. 11:8-9.-
а “Forthe man
Ь — 6 not of the woman;
Ь but the woman
а of the man.
ο. Neither was the man created
@ — for the woman,
а — but the woman
ο. for the man.”
Gal. 5:17.-
а “The flesh lusteth
b against the spirit,
Ь — апа the spirit
а against the flesh.”
1Jn. 2:18.-
a___Last time (little children)
Ь Antichrist to come (and as)
Ь — тапу come (even now)
а — last time (whereby).
2Jn. 1:6.-
а “This is love, that we walk
b — айег his commandments.
b_ This is the commandment,
а that... ye should walk in it.”
3Jn. 1:11.-
а “Follow not that which is evil,
b but that which is good;
Ь — He that doeth good is of God,
а but he that doeth evil hath not seen God.”
Other examples of introverted parallelism (of lines) may be studied
in Gen. 12:16. Deu. 16:5-6; Deu. 28:1-2. 1Sa. 1:2; 1Sa. 25:3; 2Sa.
3:1. 1Ki. 16:22. Pro. 30:8-9. Isa. 56:3-7. Joe. 2:18-21; Joe. 2:30-31.
Mic. 3:12; Mic. 4:1-2. Zec. 9:5. But they are to be found everywhere,
and they abound in the Psalms.

These examples Will be sufficient to explain and illustrate the
figure and show its importance.

See further under Parallelism and Correspondence.

(c) Similar in sound (but different in sense)
Paregmenon; or, Derivation
The Repetition of Words derived from the same Root
Pa-reg’-me-non, from παρά (para), beside or along, ἄγειν (agein), to
lead.
In this figure the repeated words are derived from the same root.
Hence, the name Paregmenon is used of the Figure when the words
are similar in origin and sound, but not similar in sense.

The Latins called it DERIVATIO.

This is one of the Figures common to all languages, but is
generally very difficult to translate from one tongue into another.

Psa. 68:28 (29).-“Thy God hath commanded thy strength (Age,
uzzechah): strengthen (ἄιέδ, uzzah) O God that which thou hast
wrought for us.”

Mat. 16:18.-“Thou art Peter (πέτρος, petros) and upon this rock
(πέτρα, petra) | will build my assembly.”

Here note (1) that Petros is not merely Simon’s name given by our
Lord, but given because of its meaning. “Petros” means a stone, a
piece of a rock, a moving stone which can be thrown by the hand.
While “petra” means a rock or cliff or crag, immovable, firm, and sure.
Both words are from the same root, both have the same derivation,
but though similar in origin and sound they are thus different in
meaning. This difference is preserved in the Latin, in which petros is
saxum, while petra is rupes or scopulus.

(2) In the case of petros, we have another figure: viz., Syllepsis, for
the word is used in two senses, though used only once. There is a
repetition, not of the word but of the thought which is not expressed:
“Thou art πέτρος,” where it is used as a proper name Peter, and there
is no figure: but the sense of the word is there as well, though not
repeated in words: “Thou art (πέτρος), a stone.” Thus there is a
metaphor implied, i.e., Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).
(3) While petros is used of Peter, petra is used of Christ: for so
Peter himself understood it (566 1Pe. 2:4-6, and Act. 4:11-12; and so
the Holy Spirit asserts in 1Co. 10:4. “And that rock (πέτρα) was
Christ,” where we have a pure metaphor (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). So
that petros represents Peter’s instability and uselessness as a
foundation, while petra represents Christ's stability as the foundation
which God Himself has laid (1Co. 3:11. Isa. 28:16).

Joh. 13:7 appears to be the Figure of Paregmenon in the English. But
there is no figure in the Greek. “What | do thou knowest not now; but
thou shalt know hereafter.”

Here, the two words “know” are different in the Greek. The first is
οἶδα (oida), to know, as a matter of absolute knowledge, but the latter
is γινώσκω (ginqbskqp), to get to know, learn.

Joh. 15:2.-“Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away
(αἴρει, airei* [Note: Ι.6., he lifteth up, as in Luk. 17:13. Joh. 11:41. Act.
4:24. Rev. 10:5, and especially Dan. 7:4 (Theodotian’s Version). See
under Ellipsis, page 13.] ): and every branch that beareth fruit he
purgeth itt [Note: Ι.6., he pruneth it.] (καθαίρει, kathairei).”

Act. 8:31.-“Understandest thou what thou readest” (γινώσκεις &
ἀναγινώσκεις, gindskeis ha anagin¢pskeis).
Here, the former verb means to know by learning, to get to know;
and the latter (which is the same verb compounded with ava (and),
again, means to read, especially, to read out loud.

Rom. 2:1.-“Thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that
judgest (0 κρίνων, ho krinqpn), for wherein thou judgest (κρίνεις,
krineis) another thou condemnest (κατακρίνεις, katakrineis) thyself;
for thou that judgest (0 κρίνων, ho krindpn) doest the same things.”
Rom. 5:19.-“For as by one man’s disobedience (παρακοῆς,
parakoees) many were made sinners, so by the obedience (ὑπακοῆς,
hypakoees) of one shall many be made righteous.”

Rom. 12:3.-“Not to think of himself more highly (ὐπερφρονεῖν,
hyperphronein) than he ought to think (φρονεῖν, phronein); but to
think (φρονεῖν, phronein) soberly (σωφρονεῖν, scpphronein),” etc.;
ie., “but so to think that he may think soberly.”

1Co. 11:29.-“For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and
drinketh damnation (κρίµα, krima) to himself, not discerning
(διακρίνων, diakrindpn) the body [of the Lora].”

Here the last words “of the Lord” go out (according to L. [Note: .
Lachmann and his critical Greek Text.] T. [Note: . Tischendorf and his
critical Greek Text.] Tr. [Note: г. Tregelles and his critical Greek Text.]
WH. [Note: H. Westcott and Hort, and their critical Greek Text.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ). And the former word krima
means not damnation, but a matter for judgment, an accusation; while
the latter word diakringbn means to distinguish, to make a distinction;
though, by the act of communion, they professed to belong to the
Body of Christ, yet if they did not discern the truth connected with that
Body (i.e., Christ Mystical) and distinguish their fellow-members of that
Body from all others, they condemned themselves, they accused
themselves. For, while they ate and drank thus, they did so unworthily:
and by that very act they condemned themselves.

1Co. 11:31-32.-“For if we would judge (διεκρίνοµεν, diekrinomen)
ourselves, we should not be judged (ἐκρινόμεθα, ekrinometha). But
when we are judged (κρινόµενοι, krinomenoi) we are chastened of
the Lord, that we should not be condemned (κατακριθῶμεν,
katakrithcpmen) with the world.”
20ο. 4:8.-“Perplexed (ἀπορούμενοι, aporoumenoi), but not in despair
(ἐξαπορούμενοι, exUporoumenoi),” i.e., at a loss to know what to do,
but not utterly at a loss.

20ο. 5:4.-“Not for that we would be unclothed (ἐκδύσασθαι,
ekdusasthai), but clothed upon (ἐπενδύσασθαι, ependusasthai)”:
i.e., that we would not be found naked in the grave, but be clothed
with our resurrection body.

The figure belongs also to Paregmenon (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).
26ο. 10:6.-“Having in a readiness to revenge all disobedience
(παρακοήν, parakoeen) when your obedience (ὑπακοή, hupakoee) is
fulfilled.” So Rom. 5:19.
2Th. 3:11.-“Working (ἐργαζομένους, ergazomenous) not at all, but
are busybodies (περιεργαζοµένους, periergazomenous).”

It is difficult to express the thought in English. The latter word
means to overdo anything; to do with pains what is not worth doing.
We might say doing nothing, yet over-doing; or, not as official, but
Officious; or, not busy, but fussy; or, not doing their own business, but
the business of others.

Heb. 10:34.-“Ye ... took joyfully the spoiling of your goods
(ὑπαρχόντων, huparchontdpn), knowing in yourselves that ye have in
heaven a better and an enduring substance (ὕπαρξιν, huparxin).”
Jam. 2:4.-“Are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become
judges of evil thoughts?” There the two words διεκρίθητε
(diekritheete) and κρίται (kritai) are from the same root: the former
means to make a distinction, and the latter judges.

Joh. 3:20.-“For if our heart condemn (καταγινώσκῃ, katagindskee)
us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth (γινώσκει, gindpskei)
all things.”

Both words are from the same root, and mean {ο know, but the
former to know something against; and the latter, simply to know, or
rather get to know, learn. For nothing can be hidden from God. Man
cannot get to know our hearts by any means which he may try. God
can; and does.

Paronomasia; or, Rhyming-Words
The Repetition of Words similar in Sound, but not necessarily in
Sense
Par-o-no-ma‘-si-a, from παρά (para) beside, and ὄνομαζειν
(onomazein) to name, make a name, or a word. The figure is so-called
because one word is placed alongside of another, which sounds and
seems like a repetition of it. But it is not the same; it is only similar.
The meaning may be similar or not, the point is that two (or more)
words are different in origin and meaning, but are similar in sound or
appearance.

Some rhetoricians misname this figure Prosonomasia, others
include it in Antanaclasis or Parechesis.

The Latins called it ANNOMINATIO, or AGNOMINATIO, from ad,
to, and nominatio, a naming (from nominare, to name). The word thus
has the same meaning as the Greek name.

This figure is not by any means what we call a pun. Far from it. But
two things are emphasized, and our attention is called to this
emphasis by the similarity of sound. Otherwise, we might read the
passage, and pass it by unnoticed; but the eye or the ear is at once
attracted by the similarity of sound or appearance, and our attention is
thus drawn to a solemn or important statement which would otherwise
have been unheeded. Sometimes a great lesson is taught us by this
figure; an interpretation is put upon the one word by the use of the
other; or a reason is given in the one for what is referred to by the
other. Sometimes a contrast is made; sometimes a thought is added.
The figure is very frequently used and is never to be disregarded.
This figure is common to all languages, but the instances cannot
readily be translated from one language into another. In some cases
we have attempted to express the Hebrew or Greek words by the use
of similar words in English; but this is generally at the sacrifice of exact
translation. Only by a very free translation of the sentence can the two
words be thus represented.

Sometimes we have found even this to be impossible: but in each
case we have given the original words in English characters, so that
the similarity of sound may be perceived. We have not in each case
stopped to point the lesson taught by the figure, as it is generally
sufficiently plain and clear.

Neither have we made any classification of the passages,
otherwise they might well be divided into those which are connected
with proper names, or prophetic denunciations, etc. Or we might have
classified them as (1) synonymous; (2) antithetic; and (3) of varied
signification.

Gen. 1:2.-“Апа the earth had become tohp1 (Wl) and Бопы (2al).”
For the lesson taught by this (the second Figure used in the Bible),
see under Anadiplosis.
Gen. 4:25.-“She called his name Seth (ad, Sheth). For God, said
she, hath appointed (ad, shsth, set) me a seed instead of Abel,
whom Cain slew.”

Gen. 9:27.-“God shall enlarge (e6u; yapht) Japhet (δ6δή,
Pyephet).”

Gen. 11:9.-"Therefore is the name of it called Babel (AAG, Babel),
because the Lord did there confound (aéé, balal, or turn to babble)
the language of all the earth.”

Gen. 18:27.-Abraham says, “Behold now, | have taken upon me to
speak unto the Lord, which am but dust (hdr, aphar) and ashes
(fOr, v’epher).” See also Job. 30:19.

Gen. 29:34."Now this time will my husband be joined (6618,
yillaveh) ... therefore was his name called Levi (élé, Levi, or
Jjoiner).”

Gen. 29:35.-“Now will | praise (158, фаей) the Lord: therefore she
called his name Judah (ealaa, y’hudah).”

Gen. 41:51.-“And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh
(dua, M’nasheh): For God, said he, hath made me forget (dudé,
nasshanee).”

Gen. 41:52.-“And the name of the second called he Ephraim (réréi,
Ephrayim): for God hath caused me to be fruitful (adrdé,
hiphranee) in the land of my affliction.”

Gen. 49:8.-“Thou Judah (όβΙᾶ8, y’hudah), thy brethren shall praise
thee (élale, yoducha).”

Gen. 49:16~"Dan (Ad, Dan) shall judge (GAC, yadeen) his
People as one of the tribes of Israel.”* [Note: Compare Gen. 30:6 :
“And Rachel said, God hath judged me (addé, dananni) ... therefore
she called his name Dan (ad, Dan).”]

Gen. 49:19.-“Gad (aa, Gad), a troop (aala, g’dbid) shall overcome
him (ealadl; у’яыйеппы); but he shall overcome (όβᾶ, yagud) at
the last.”

Exo. 32:18.-“And he said, /t is not the voice of them that shout
(Adld, апф®) for mastery, neither is it the voice of them that cry
(Adld, anqpth) for being overcome: but the noise of them that sing
(AGU, annepth) do | hear.”

It may be Englished thus: “It is not the sound of those who strike,
neither the sound of those who are stricken: but the sound of those
who strike up (musically) do | hear.”

Num. 5:18.-“And the priest shall have in his hand the bitter water (ié
airéi, mey hammarom) that causeth the curse (aiffréi,
hamarrom).”

Num. 18:2.-“And thy brethren also of the tribe of Levi élé, Levee),
the tribe of thy father bring thou with thee, that they may be joined
466]; v’yillavu) unto thee to minister unto thee.”
Num. 24:21.-“And he looked on the Kenites (a-édé, hakeyno), and
took up his parable, and said, Strong is thy dwellingplace, and thou
puttest thy nest (-de, kinnecha) in a rock.”
Deu. 30:3.-And in all the passages where Jehovah says, “I will turn or
bring again (uae, v’shavto) the captivity (ruluald, eth-
sh’vpith) of my people,” there is this use of two similar words. See
2Ch. 28:11. Neh. 8:17. Job. 42:10. Psa. 14:7; Psa. 53:6 (7); 85:1 (2);
126:1, 4. Jer. 30:3; Jer. 30:18; Jer. 31:23; Jer. 32:44; Jer. 33:7; Jer.
33:11; Jer. 33:26; Jer. 48:47; Jer. 49:6; Jer. 49:39. Lam. 2:14. Eze.
16:53; Eze. 29:14; Eze. 39:25. Amo. 9:14. Zep. 2:7; Zep. 3:20.
1Sa. 1:27-28.-“For this child | prayed; and the Lord hath given me my
petition (UfCUC, sh’alstho), which | asked of him (UfeUE,
shpaltee): therefore also | have lent him (aureuéal; hishiltohpt)
to the Lord; as long as he liveth he shall be lent (urlé, shabil).”
1Sa. 13:7.-“And some of the Hebrews (inaréi, V’ivrom) went over
(haf ‚ аугы) Jordan.”

N.B.-“Abram the Hebrew” was so called to describe him as the
man who had come from the other side of the Euphrates and had
crossed over into Canaan. They are so called by Saul in this chapter,
verse 3. See also 14:11, 21, where the Philistines call them so.
2Sa. 22:42.-“They looked @eunil; yishbt), but there was none to save
(δή, πιῴσμος). Or, they might crave, but there was none to
save.

See also Psa. 18:41 (42).

From the two similar roots und (shaah), to look, and eur
(yasha), to save.
1К!. 2:36.-“And the king sent and called for Shimei, and said unto him,
Build thee an house in Jerusalem, and dwell there, and go not forth
thence any whither” (fda lfda, aneh veanah), i.e., as in English,
hither and thither. So verse 42; and 2Ki. 5:25 : Gehazi said “Thy
servant went no whither,” /.e., aneh veanah, hither and thither.
1Ch. 22:9.-“For his name shall be Solomon (uéta, Shelcbm¢ph), and
| will give peace (uéii, shaldbm) and quietness unto Israel in his
days.”
2Ch. 28:11; Neh. 8:17. See Deu. 30:3.
Job. 11:12.-“For vain (dala, Navbiv) man would be wise (όδά6,
yillavev), though man be born like a wild ass’s colt.” Or, For man, in
his vanity, will vaunt of sanity; though humanity be born as a wild
ass’s colt.

From the two verbs of like origin.
Job. 42:10.-See Deu. 30:3.
Psa. 14:7 (8).-See Deu. 30:3.
Psa. 18:7.-“The earth shook (άβῆή, “vattigash) and trembled
(arn, vattirash).” Or, The earth shaked and quaked.
Psa. 22:16 (17).-Every important Massorah gives a list of words which
occur twice in different senses. The word éffé (kaaro) is one of
these words, and the two places are Isa. 38:13 and Psa. 22:16. There
can be no doubt also that some Codices read {ΤΙ (Ка-агы) as a rival
reading. Dr. Ginsburg concludes from the Chaldee translation that
both these readings were at one time in the text, and it is not
improbable that one of the words of this pair dropped out.* [Note: See
his Introduction to the Hebrew Bible, pp. 968-972.] If this was the
case then there was originally not only a beautiful completeness as to
the sense, but also a forcible Paronomasia as well.

“They tore (δή, Каагы) like a lion (éfré, kaari) my hands and
my feet.” Or

“Like a lion they tore my hands and my feet.”

This is borne out by the structure of the passage (verses 12-17).t
[Note: See under Ellipsis, pp. 28, 29.]

The reading is shown to require the two words, which thus make
the beautiful Paronomasia:

“Like a lion they tore my hands and feet.”

Exactly as in Isa. 38:13.
Psa. 25:16.-“Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for | am
desolate and afflicted” (Inaé faé, vahno ahno, lit. “afflicted am I”).
Psa. 39:11 (12).-“When thou with rebukes dost correct man (feu,
osh) for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth
(AU, ης)”
Psa. 40:3 (4).-“Many shall see it ffl ‚ yirbt) and fear (léérrl-
у’уогаы).” Or, Many will peer and fear.

See also Psa. 52:6.
Psa. 53:6 (8).-See Deu. 30:3.
Psa. 56:8 (9).-“Thou tellest my wanderings (daé, пфаее); put thou
my tears into thy bottle (AG/AE, b’nodecha).” The similarity of
sound is intended to call our attention to the fact that the tears caused
by our wanderings are noted and noticed by God.
Psa. 64:4 (5).-“Suddenly do they shoot at him (éfal; уогибы) and
fear (eérfl; yorakp)) not.”
Psa. 69:30-31 (31, 32).-“I will praise the name of God with a song
(aber, b’shor).... This also shall please the Lord better than an ox
(iu if, mishgpr) or bullock that hath horns and hoofs.”

Psa. 85:1. See Deu. 30:3.

Psa. 96:5.- ΕΟΓ all the gods (élréae, kol-elohay) of the nations
are idols (reeéeei, elolom).” This latter word means nothings, or
things of naught; so that we might render it, “The gods of the nations
are imaginations.”

Psa. 119:13.-With my lips (AUOUE, bispatai) have | declared
(AOFUE, sipparti).”

Psa. 122:6.-“Pray for (urél; shaalbl) the peace of (uéli, sh’lom)
Jerusalem (efluééi, Y’rbishalayim): they shall prosper (euéel;
yishlahybt) that love thee.”

Psa. 126:1; Psa. 126:4.-See Deu. 30:3.

Psa. 137:5.-‘If | forget thee, О Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her
cunning.” This is how the passage stands in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] It has also been treated as
an Ellipsis (see pp. 9, 10); where we have supplied “me” after the
verb, i.e., let my “right hand forget me.”

The first verb is ruéee. (eshkachech), / / forget thee. And the
second is uude (tishkach), /её it forget (third pers. sing. Kal. fut.
from ὑδς, shachach).

Dr. Ginsburg suggests that in the transcription from the ancient
Phoenician characters to the present square Hebrew characters, the
aleph (= is) which originally commenced the latter word, was mistaken
for Tau ( = U), which it closely resembles, and thus the verb was
changed from the first person to the third in the second clause. If we
restore the Aleph i) we have the following sense and a beautiful
Paronomasia:-

“If | forget thee ({ᾷξςρ, eshkachech), Ο Jerusalem, may | forget
(ruée, eshkach) my right hand.”
Pro. 6:23.-“For the commandment is a lamp, and the law (ΜΙΓΑ,
v’teprah) is light (fr, opr); and reproofs of instruction are the way of
life.”
Pro. 18:24.-The Paronomasia here lies in the word “friends,” ἴπέί,
reyim, and éaurinn, lehitrepsa (i.e., геуе and гфза: the “т” of the
former, and “lehith” of the latter belonging to the inflections). The latter
is from ima (raah), to break (and not from mma (raah), to feed), and
means to our own detriment, and not to make friends. Then further,
ru (ish) is not a peculiar spelling of réu (osh), man, but stands for
éu, there is. So that the verse reads:

“There are friends to our own detriment (or ruin);

But there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.”

Or, as we might put it:
“There are friends that break us,
But there is a friend that makes us.”
Or:-
“There are friends that give us broken hearts,
But there is a friend who ne’er departs.”
Ecc. 7:1.-“A good (cla, 1фу) name (uf, shem) is better than
ointment (uid, mishshemen) that is good (cla, tov).

See under Epanadiplosis.

Ecc. 7:6.-“As the crackling (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] sound) of
thorns (anéréi, hassirim) under the pot (aneéyr, hassir) so is the
laughter of fools.”

Here the figure attracts the attention to the fact that the burning of
the thorns makes a noise, but it lasts only for a moment and it is all
over. So it is with the laughter of fools. See further and compare Psa.
58:9; Psa. 118:12, and Ecc. 2:2.

It may be Englished thus: “As the sound of the nettle under the
kettle;” or, “as the flaming of whin* [Note: Furze or gorse.] neath a
caldron of tin;” or, “as the blazing of grass neath a caldron of brass.”
Isa. 2:19; Isa. 2:21.-“When He ariseth to shake terribly (δΗἴό,
laar¢ptz) the earth (AITO, haaretz).”

Isa. 5:7.-"He looked for judgment (11166, mishpat), but behold
oppression (ide, mishpach); for righteousness (6a-a, tzdakah),
but behold a cry (ОЙ-а, tzeskeh).”

We might English this by rendering it, “He looked for equity, but
behold iniquity; for a righteous nation, but behold lamentation.”
Isa. 7:9.-“If ye will not believe (fi ёг ЦЙёб' im lo taaminbt!),
surely ye shall not be established (6é ёг ufidl; ki lo {еатепы.

We may English it thus:-“If ye will not understand, ye shall not
surely stand.” Or,

“If ye have no belief, surely ye shall have no relief.”

Or, “no confiding, no abiding.”
Isa. 10:16.-“And under his glory he shall kindle (6-a, yekad) a
burning (6 -Ἔ, уекфа) like the burning (G@-I8, кжфа) of a fire.”
Isa. 13:4.~"The Lord of hosts (ОаЙИ, tzevacpth) mustereth the host
(баг, tzeva) of the battle,” or a host for the battle.
Isa. 13:6.-“Howl ye; for the day of the Lord is at hand; it shall come as
a destruction (GUA, k’shtbd) from the Almighty (11186, mish-
shaddai).” The awful nature of that day is emphasized by this figure,
and our attention is directed to the fact that Destruction comes from
the all-bountiful One! It is like “the wrath of the Lamb,” of which we
read in Rev. 6:16-17. We have the same figure again in Joe. 1:15.

Isa. 15:9.-“For the waters of Dimon (AGiIC’, Dimepn) shall be full of
blood (Ai, dam).”

Isa. 17:1.-“Behold, Damascus is taken away from being a city inéy,
meyeer) and it shall be a ruinous heap (iné, me-o).” The latter word
is put for inlé, ma-avee, so that by an unusual form of the word it
may allude to the word “city.”

Isa. 17:2.-“The cities (Are, araye) of Aroer” (AAR, Aroer).

Isa. 21:2.-“Go up (ἄξό, alee), Ο Elam (ἄόξί, eylam).”

Isa. 22:18.-“He will surely (ald, tzandph) violently turn (e6dée,
yitznaphcha) and toss thee (6d6a, tzenepha).”

Isa. 24:3."The land shall be utterly (AAl- ΠΙΡΟΦΚ) emptied (IAI-,
ΕΒΟΦΚ), and utterly (AIG, whibbepz) spoiled (MAIC, tibbepz): for
the Lord hath spoken this word.”

Isa. 24:4.-“The earth mourneth (Faéa, avelah) and fadeth away
(daéa, naviah), the world (UAE, tevel) languisheth (Пёёа,
umlelah), and fadeth away (daéa, navlah), the haughty people of
the earth do languish (eel; umlalbi).

Isa. 24:17-18.-"Fear (O€A, pachad), and the pit (δού, v’phachat),
and the snare (δς, vapach) are upon thee, Ο, inhabitant of the
earth. And it shall come to pass, that he who fleeth from the noise of
the fear (AO€A, happachad) shall fall into the pit (AOCU,
happachat): and he that cometh up out of the midst of the pit (a6eu,
happachat) shall be taken in tone snare (ad¢, bappach).
See also Jer. 48:43-44.
Isa. 25:1.-O Lord, thou art my God: | will exalt thee (ΠΠ,
ardmimcha), | will praise thy name (faa ὑῖθ, cbdeh shimcha).”
Isa. 25:6.-“And in this mountain shall the Lord of hosts make unto all
people a feast duda, mishteh) of fat things (uidéi, sh’maneem) a
feast (ada, mishteyh) of wines on the lees (uiréi, sh’marim), of
fat things (uidéi, sh’manim) full of marrow (igéi,
m’muchayeem), of wines on the lees (uiréi, sh’marim) well
refined.
Isa. 30:16.-“But ye said, No; for we will flee (din, Nanbis) upon
horses (nih, 5015): therefore shall ye flee (Μα[ήία, ?nbisbin): and,
We will ride upon the swift (-6, kal); therefore shall they that pursue
you be swift (-él- yikkallbt).
Isa. 32:6.-“For the vile person (daé, naval) will speak villainy
(daéa, n’valah),” where the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] preserves the figure very
well.

Isa. 32:7.-“The instruments also of the churl (lééé 6éél, vecheleo
kelav) are evil.”

Isa. 32:19.-“When it shall hail (lara, bivarad) coming down on
(AF AU, b’redeth) the forest.”

Isa. 41:5.-“The isles saw it (rfl ‚ гаы), and feared (léérrl ‚ V’yirabl):
the ends of the earth were afraid (écfal; yecheradbl) drew near (>
ral; Кагмы) and came.

Isa. 54:8.-‘In a little (AUGO, b’shetzeph) wrath (-OO, ketzeph) | hid
my face from thee for a moment.”

Isa. 57:6.-“Among the smooth stones (ἀςδ-ό, bechalkai) of the
stream is thy portion (οὔ-θ, chelkech).”

Isa. 61:3.-“To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them
beauty (6Η, p’eyr) for ashes (For, epher).”
the Lord came unto me, saying, Jeremiah, What seest thou? And |
said, | see a rod of an almond tree (ἀ-ᾶ, shaked). Then said the Lord
unto me, Thou hast well seen; for | will watch over it (U-A, shoked).
So, A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] margin.

Our attention is thus called to the fact that the almond tree has to
do With judgment deferred, but finally executed. This is just what we
have in Jeremiah: and hence it is the truth set forth in the opening
chapter.

The times of the Gentiles are passed over to show that their
judgment is deferred tiff that foretold shall have been executed on
Babylon (chap. 25).

Chapters 50 and 51 give us the day of reckoning with Babylon for
the plunder and destruction of the temple. Jer. 50:4-5 tells us when it
shall take place. So again 50:20. If we compare the following
passages, it is clear that all this is yet future. Compare:

Jer. 51:13
with

Rev. 17:1; Rev. 17:15;
Jer. 51:8
with

Rev. 18:2;
Jer. 51:45
with

Rev. 18:4;
Jer. 50:13
with

Rev. 18:19;
Jer. 51:48
with

Rev. 18:20;

Jer. 50:15

with

Rev. 18:22-23;

and we shall see that the judgment is indeed deferred; but, it will

surely come. God will “watch over” it to bring it to pass, and this is

emphasized and marked by the three words:

Shaked-shoked-sheshach.* [Note: See Jer. 25:26; Jer. 51:41.]
For the Figure involved in these three words, see under Znigma.

Jer. 1:17.-Here there are two Paronomasias which are alternated:-

“Be not dismayed (ugu, techath) at their faces (i6déai,
mipnehem),
Lest | confound thee (gue, achitcha) before them
(θά 8[, liphnenem).”
Jer. 6:1.-"Blow ({]-ἤ |-tiken) in Tekoa (at-lihy, the trumpet.”
Jer. 8:13.-1 will surely (Frid, ahsqph) consume them «Πέδί,
asiphem).”
Jer. 10:11.-“The gods that have not made (haal; avadb!) the
heavens and the earth, even they shall perish (6faal; yevadb!) from
the earth, and from under these heavens.”

Thus is the verse emphasized, and our attention called to it. And
when we look at it we find that, unlike the rest of the prophecies of
Jeremiah, this verse is not written in Hebrew but in Chaldee! It is a
message sent to the Gentiles and their gods by the God of Israel; and,
like parts of the book of Daniel which specially relate to the Gentiles,
and their times, it is in the Gentile and not in the Hebrew tongue.

See Dan. 2:4-49; Dan. 3:1-30; Dan. 4:1-37; Dan. 5:1-31; Dan.

6:1-28; Dan. 7:1-28. Ezr. 4:8-24; Ezr. 5:1-17; Ezr. 6:1-18; Ezr. 7:12-26,
where Israel is under Gentile power. Jer. 30:3; Jer. 30:18; Jer. 31:23;
Jer. 32:44; Jer. 33:7; Jer. 33:10-11; Jer. 33:25-26. See Deu. 30:3.
Jer. 48:2.-“In Heshbon (aguald’, b’cheshb¢pn) they have devised
(cual; chashvp!) evil against it: come, and let us cut it off from being
a nation. Also thou shalt be cut down (uaié, tiddcbmmi), О Madmen
(aid, madmen).”
Jer. 48:9.-“Give wings unto Moab, that it may flee (dor, natzo) and
get away (άδ, tetze).” Or, may fly and flee away.

Jer. 48:43-44.-See Isa. 24:17-18.

Jer. 48:47; Jer. 49:6; Jer. 49:39.-See Deu. 30:3.

Lam. 2:5.-“And hath increased in the daughter of Judah mourning
(UFdéa, ta’aniyah) and lamentation ddéa, v’aniyah).”

Lam. 2:14.-See Deu. 30:3.

Lam. 3:47.-“Fear (9ρᾶ, pachad) and a snare (δού, vaphachath)
is come upon us.” Or, scare and a snare.

Eze. 7:6.-“An end (-O, ketz) is come, the end (3-6, haketz): it
watcheth (а-©0, hekitz) for thee: behold, it is come.”

Eze. 12:10.-“Say thou unto them, Thus saith the Lord God: This
burden (aiuif, hammassa) concerneth the prince (adties,
hannasi).” Or, this grief concerns a chief.

Eze. 16:53.-See Deu. 30:3.
Eze. 24:21.-“I will profane my sanctuary, the excellency of your
strength, the desire (igia, machmad) of your eyes, and that which
your soul pitieth (ligié, umachmal).” Lit., the pity of your soul. Or,
your eyes’ admiration and your soul’s commiseration.
Eze. 25:16.-“Behold | will stretch out mine hand upon the Philistines,
and | will cut off ([AGTUC, whichratti) the Cherethims (GFUCI,
k’rethim).”
Eze. 29:14; Eze. 39:25.-See Deu. 30:3.
Dan. 5:26-28.-“This is the interpretation of the thing:

МЕМЕ (if, m’ney): God hath numbered (148, m’nah) thy
kingdom and finished it.

TEKEL (U-€, t’kel’): thou art weighed (U-GUF, t’kolta) in the
balances and art found wanting.

PERES (OFM, p’res): thy kingdom is divided (OFENU, p’rosath)
and given to the Medes and Persians (lérn, upharas).
Hos. 8:7."The bud (OIG, tzemach) shall yield no (-1С, kemach)
meal.” Or, the flower shall yield no flour.
Hos. 9:15.-“Their princes (ἀἴόδί, sarehem) are revolters (nliréi,
sqprrim).”
Hos. 12:11.-"Is there iniquity in Gilead (ΔΕ, gilad, {6., heap of
testimony)? surely they are vanity: they sacrifice bullocks in Gilgal
(aaéaé, baggilgal, /е., heap of heap): yea, their altars are as
heaps (6aééi, k’gallim) in the furrows of the field.”
Joe. 1:15.-See Isa. 13:6.
Amo. 8:1-2.-“And he said, Amos, what seest thou? And | said, a
basket of summer fruit (-€6, kayitz* [Note: From @УЛ (kutz), to cut
off, pick or gather ripe fruits].). Then said the Lord unto me. The end
(a-6, haketz) is come upon my people Israel; | will not again pass by
them any more.”

Le., they are now like the ripe fig, ready to be cut off, or ripe for
judgment.
Amo. 9:14.-See Deu. 30:3.

Jon. 4:6.-“And the Lord God prepared a gourd, and made it to come
up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow (68, tzel) over his head, to
deliver (GAOEE, Phatzil) him from his grief.” Or, a shield to shelter
his head.

Mic. 1:10.-"In the house of Aphrah (GNOFA, Paphrah) roll thyself in
the dust (nr, aphar).”

The names of all these places (10-15) are significant and
connected with the prophecy associated with them.

“Declare ye it not at Gath, weep not at Accho”t For so it should
read, uy (bacho) rendered “at all,” being the primitive form of the
word and standing for the later and fuller spelling προ] Accho was
connected with water, being a maritime town, and in the
neighbourhood of inland swamps. Now called Akka (French St. Jean
d’Acre). (Water Town).

“In the house of Aphra (Dust town) roll thyself in the dust.”
“Pass ye away thou inhabitant of Saphir (Fair town) in nakedness
and shame” (Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] and see margin
Α.Ν. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] ).

“The inhabitant of Zaanan (Flock-town) is not come forth” (R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).

“The wailing of Beth-ezel (House-of-sloth) shall take from you the
stay thereof’ (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881] ).

“For the inhabitant of Maroth (Bitter-town) waiteth anxiously for
good (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] marg. [Note: arg.
Margin.] , “is in travail’), because evil is come down from the Lord into
the gate of Jerusalem.”

“Bind the chariot to the swift steed, O inhabitant of Lachish
(Horse-town): she was the beginning of sin to the daughter of Zion: for
the trangressions of Israel were found in thee.”

“Therefore shalt thou give a parting gift to Moresheth-gath (Gath’s
possession).”

“The houses of Ackzib (Lie-town or False-town) shall be a lie to
the kings of Israel.”

“Yet will | bring an heir unto thee, O inhabitant of Mareshah
(Heritage-town).”

“He shall come unto Adullam (Rest-town) the glory of Israel.”
Nah. 2:10."She is empty (@!-а, b’ukah), and void lial-a,
bimbooquah), and waste (ia6-a, umbullakah).”
Hab. 2:18.-“What profiteth the graven image that the maker thereof
hath graven it: the molten image, and a teacher of lies, that the maker
of his work trusteth therein, to make dumb (/@/@i, illimim) idols
«ξέξέ[, elitim).”
Zep. 1:2.-“I will utterly ({Πό, ahsoph) consume ({ήό, aseph) all
things from off the land, saith the Lord.” Lit, {ήό, [NO (asoph,
aseph), to end, | end, i.e., by taking away | will make an end of.
Zep. 2:4.-“For Gaza (nga, Aazzah) shall be forsaken (Aclaa,
aazuvah) ... and Ekron (A-fId’, v’ekrqpn) shall be rooted out (UA,
teaker).
Zep. 2:7; Zep. 3:20.-See Deu. 30:3.
Zec. 9:3.-"And Tyrus (Ol, Tz¢pr) did build herself a strong-hold (OIF,
та фг).”
Zec. 9:5.-“Ashkelon shall see it (uFf, tere) and fear (luérf, v’thira).
Mat. 21:41.-“He will miserably (κακῶς, kakdps) destroy those wicked
(κακούς, kakous) wicked men.”

In the Greek the two words come together, thus: κακοὺς κακῶς
(kakous kakqps).
Mat. 22:3.-“They would not come.” οὐκ ἤθελον ἐλθεῖν (ouk eethelon
elthein). See under Meiosis.
Mat. 24:7.-“There shall be famines (λιµοί, limoi), and pestilences
(λοιμοί, loimoi).” So Luk. 21:11.
Rom. 1:29.-“Fornication (πορνεία, porneia* [Note: This word should
go out according to the Texts of L.T.Tr. WH., and Π.Ν] ), wickedness
(πονηρίᾳ, poneeria) ... full of envy (Φθόνου, phthonou), murder
(φόνου, phonou),” etc.
Rom. 1:31.-“Without understanding (douvétouc, asunetous)
covenant-breakers (ἀσυνθέτους, asunthetous).”
Rom. 9:18.-“Therefore hath He mercy on whom He will have mercy.”
Lit., so then on whom he will θελει (thelei) he shews mercy ἐλεεῖ
(eleei).
1Co. 9:17.-“For if | do this thing willingly (ἑκών, hekdpn), | have (ἔχω,
echqp) a reward.” See under Oxymoron.
2Co. 8:22.-“And we have sent with them our brother, whom we have
oftentimes (πολλάκις, pollakis) proved diligent in many things
(πολλοῖς, pollois).”

In the Greek the words come together, and in a different order:-
πολλοῖς πολλάκις (pollois pollakis).
2Co. 9:8.-“Having all sufficiency in all things,” παντὶ πάντοτε πᾶσαν
(panti pantote pasan).
Php. 3:2.-“Beware of the katatomee (κατατοµή): for we are the
peritomee (περιτομή).

Thus are contrasted the false and the true circumcision. True
circumcision is “to worship God in the spirit, to rejoice in Christ Jesus,
and to have no confidence in the flesh” (Php. 3:3). It is “of the heart in
spirit, and not in letter” (Rom. 2:25; Rom. 2:29).

To go back therefore to ordinances, and to this ordinance, after
having been made free in Christ is mutilation, not true circumcision.
The verb κατατέµνειν (katatemnein) is always connected with
mutilation, see Lev. 21:5. 1Ki. 18:28. Isa. 15:2. Hos. 7:14.
1Ti. 1:18.-“War a good warfare,” strateian strateuein.
1Ti. 4:3.-This passage has been referred to under Ellipsis and
Zeugma; but there is a latent Paronomasia in one word that is omitted.
The Greek is κωλυόντων (κφΙειοπίφπ), forbidding. This word
suggests the other word which is omitted, but is obviously to be
υπαθιςίοος:-κελευόντων (keleuontdpn), commanding. There is the
difference of only one letter between the two words. This is not, of
course, a pure paronomasia as only one of the words is expressed.
1Ti. 6:5-6.-Where the word porismos, gain, is connected with
peirasmos, temptation, in verse 9.

Heb. 5:8.-“Though he were a Son yet learned he (ἔμαθεν, emathen)
obedience by the things which he suffered (ἔποθεν, epathen).”

Jam. 5:17.-“With prayer (προσευχῆ, proseuchee) he prayed
(προσηύξατο, proseeuxato)”: i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “He prayed
earnestly.” See Polyptoton.
Parechesls; or, Foreign Paronomasia
The Repetition of Words similar in Sound, but different in Language
Par-ee-che -sis. Greek, παρήξησις: from παρά (para), beside, and ἠξή
(eechee), a sound, a sounding of one word beside another.

Parechesis is a Paronomasia, when the repeated words of similar
sound are in another tongue.

The examples of Paronomasia which we have given are such only
in the Hebrew and the Greek, not in the English rendering of them
There is no figure in the English Translation; except when it may be
possible to reproduce the similar words in translation (as is done in
Rom. 10:19, disobedience and obedience, etc.). So far as the English
is concerned, and as related to it, all the examples of Paronomasia
are really Parechesis, because they exist in another language and not
in the translation of it.
Similarly, as the New Testament (if not originally written in Hebrew,
and then at a very early date translated into Greek) is at least full of
Hebrew thought and idiom. (See under Idiom.) So that, though there
may be no Paronomasia in the Greek words, there may be in the
Hebrew thought, or in the Hebrew words which the Greek words
represent. In these cases, where the Paronomasia is in the Hebrew
thought, it is called Parechesis so far as the Greek is concerned. And
it is only when we go to the Hebrew thought that we can hear the
Hebrew words sounding beside the Greek words.

To put the difference in a simpler form: Two words similar in sound
are a Paronomasia with regard to their particular language, both
words being in the same language. But a Parechesis is found when
the two words are not in the same language.

The Greeks also called this figure

PAROMCEOSIS, from παρόμοιος, very much alike; and

PARISON or PARISOSIS, from παρά (para), beside, and ἴσος
(isos), equal to.

So that words equal to other words in one language are seen to be
similar to those in another language when placed beside them.
It follows, from what we have said, that all the examples of
Parechesis must occur in the New Testament:

Mat. 3:9.-“God is able of these stones to raise up children unto
Abraham.”

Here, there is no Paronomasia either in the Greek or the English,
but there is in the Hebrew thought. Hence, these would be this
Parechesis:-
fadéi (abanim), stones.
ἀᾷ6{ (banim), children.

“God is able of these abanim to raise up banim unto Abraham.”
Mat. 10:30.-“The very hairs of your head are all numbered.” idf,
mene, and idél, manyan.
Mat. 11:17.-“We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced
(ὠρξήσασθε, dprcheesasthe): we have mourned unto you, and ye
have not lamented (ἐκόψασθε, ekopsasthe).

There is a Homeeoteleuton in these two Greek words but no
Paronomasia. The Parachesis is seen by the Syriac, referring to which
the Lord doubtless used. There we see a beautiful example of
Paronomasia, for the word “danced” would be r-auld, rakedton,
and the word “lamented” would be ff-auld, arkedton.

In the English it would be:-“We have piped unto you and ye did not
leap: we have mourned unto you, and ye do not weep.”

Mat. 11:29.-“l am meek, and ye shall find rest.”

In the Peshito we have dé¢ (nich), and décf (n’yacha), and
better still in the Lewis-Codex IFG@¢Eld’ (v’enichkon), ie., / shall
give you rest,” i.e., | ат neech and v’eneechk¢pn.

Mar. 8:32.-The words of Peter to Jesus are rendered in the Lewis-
Codex:-“As if he pitied him: be it far from thee.” This is arn, haes;
cn, chas.
Luk. 7:41-42.-See Rom. 13:8.
Joh. 1:5.-“The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness
comprehended it not.”

In Syriac the word “darkness” would be -aé, keval, and
“comprehend” would be -ἀδ, kabbel.

Joh. 10:1.-“He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold” would
be id urn écéif, min tara letora.
Rom. 13:8.-“Owe no man anything but to оуе one another.”

In the Greek (as in the English) these words are very different: but,
to a Hebrew, the two words would immediately be, in the mind, ρά
(Ό, acheb and cla, chab. “Спфу, be debtor to no man, but achBb
one another.” The same is seen in Luk. 7:41-42.

Rom. 15:4.-“That we through patience ... might have hope.” This
would be naf, sabbar and nlay, subar (from the same root).

“That we through sabbar might have saubar.”
1Co. 1:23-24.-“We preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling-
block, and unto the Greeks foolishness; but unto them which are
called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the
wisdom of God.”

Here, there is a beautiful combination of words. By a simple
change of letters, the words signify cross, stumbling-block,
foolishness, power, and wisdom:-

iiéé (maskal) is cross.

JEUIE (michshepl) is stumbling-block.

néé (sechel) is foolishness.

Δὐδόδ (haschil) is power: ᾖθ., prosperity or success
resulting from power in doing anything.

uéé (sechel) is wisdom (1Ch. 22:12; 1Ch. 26:14. Pro. 12:8).

So that the whole passage would sound, in reading, thus:-“We
preach Christ, maskal, to the Jews michshgpl, and to the Greeks
sekel, but to them that are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the
haschil of God and the sechel of God.”
2Co. 11:17.-“But as it were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting.”
Here, foolishness and boasting are (from the same root)-
AUAEE (hithaltel) and
AUAIEES (nitheplel).
(d) With a different sound (but similar sense)
Synonymia; or, Synonymous Words
The Repetition of Words similar in Sense, but different in Sound and
Origin
Syn-o-nym -i-a, from σύν (sun), together with, and ὄνομα (onoma), а
name. A Synonym is so Called when the sense of two or more words
is similar, though the sound and appearance and derivation may be
quite different. Synonyms do not make the figure called Synonymia
unless they are used for the purpose of enhancing the force and fire of
the passage.

The Figure of Synonymia is a repetition of words different in sound
and origin, but similar in shades of meaning. When used rhetorically-
repeating the same sentence in other words-it has a variety of uses, to
which distinct names have been given according to the nature of the
subject, or the object of the speaker. See below under the next section
(Section ΙΙ., Repetition, affecting the sense).

Synonymia, when employed by man, is often an unnecessary and
vain repetition of empty words; but, when used by the Holy Spirit, it
causes the mind to look again and again at the subject. Man may use
it to expose his unhappy vanity: but God uses it to emphasize His
wisdom, power, or purpose, when words of similar meaning are
heaped together to attract the attention, and impress the mind.

We have not, except in a few important instances, attempted to
define the various Synonyms employed. This is a work by itself, and
will well repay the most patient and careful study.

Exo. 1:7.-“And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increased, and
multiplied.”
Here, we are impressed with the extraordinary great and rapid
increase of Israel in Egypt, on which the Divine Comment in Psa.
105:24 is, “He increased His People exceedingly.” See also Gen. 46:3;
Deu. 26:5; Act. 7:17.

The figure of Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) is combined,
here, with Synonymia.

Exo. 2:23-25.-“And the children of Israel sighed by reason of the
bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason
of the bondage.”

Here the distress of the People is emphasized; as in the next
verses the faithfulness of God to His covenant is impressed upon us:

“And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his
covenant

with Abraham,

with Isaac, and

with Jacob:

and God looked upon the children of Israel,
and God had respect unto them.”
Here we have Anaphora (q.v. [Note: Which see-] ), in the repetition
of the word “with”: Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see] ), in the
repetition of the word “with,” combined with Synonymia, and all this in
order to emphasize this remarkable crisis and turning-point of Israel’s
history.

Exo. 12:2.-"This month shall be unto you the beginning of months: it
shall be the first month of the year to you.”

Thus the important fact of the change of the beginning of the year
is emphasized. It was no ordinary event; and it is thus impressed upon
the People.

Exo. 15:16.-“Fear and dread shall fall upon them.”
Exo. 34:6-7.-The import of the name “Jehovah” is revealed by a nine-
fold synonymous description, which may be thus exhibited:

“Jehovah passed by before him (Moses) and proclaimed Jehovah,
Jehovah, El

merciful,

and gracious,

longsuffering
and abundant in goodness
and truth,
keeping mercy for thousands,
forgiving iniquity,
and transgression,
and sin.”
Deu. 13:4.-“Ye shall walk after the Lord your God, and fear him,
and keep his commandments,
and obey his voice;
and ye shall serve him,
and cleave unto him.”

Here the synonyms are heaped together in order to emphasize the
steadfastness with which the people were to follow Jehovah, and to
impress them with the perfection demanded by the Law.

With this is combined Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ).

Deu. 20:3.-“Hear, O Israel, ye approach this day unto battle against
your enemies: let not your hearts faint,
fear not, and
do not tremble,
neither be ye terrified
because of them.”
Psa. 5:1-2 (2, 3).-
“Give ear to my words, O Lord,
Consider my meditation;
Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King and my God.”
So David’s words and meditation and cry and prayer and voice are
thus emphasized.
Psa. 6:8-9 (9, 10).-
“The Lord hath heard the voice of my weeping,
The Lord hath heard my supplication,
The Lord will receive my prayer.”
Here we have Anaphora (q.v. [Νοίε: Which see.] ) and Synonymia
in David's prayer, as well as in Jehovah’s hearkening thereto, in order
to emphasize the great truth conveyed in these two verses.

Psa. 7:14, (15).-
“Behold he travaileth with iniquity,
and hath conceived mischief,
and brought forth falsehood.”

Here we have a double series of synonyms: in the nouns, as well
as the verbs.

Psa. 7:15 (16).-
“He made a pit and digged it,
And he is fallen into the ditch which he made.”
Psa. 8:4 (5).-
“What is man that thou art mindful of him?
And the son Of man that thou visitest him?
Psa. 10:17.-
“Lord, thou hast heard the desire of the humble:
Thou wilt prepare their heart,
Thou wilt cause Thine ear to hear.”
Here Synonymia is enforced in the last line by Polyptoton (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).
Psa. 29:1-2.-
“Give the Lord, O ye sons of God (i.e., Angels; A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
16141, “mighty”)
Give the Lord glory and strength.
Give the Lord the glory due unto His name;
Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness.”
Psa. 32:1-2.-
“Blessed is he whose trangression is forgiven,
Whose sin is covered.
Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity.”

These three synonyms must be understood, in order to receive the
blessing which the figure here announces.

(1) Trangression is our (pesha), from the root, to break, to
break with; hence, to break covenant with, revolt, rebel (see 1Ki.
12:19; 2Ki. 8:20). When Jehovah says (Isa. 43:27): “Thy teachers
have transgressed.” He means they have revolted from Him. So with
Isa. 1:2.
(2) Sin is GCFU (chattath), a missing, not hitting the mark (Jdg.
20:16); also of the feet, to miss the step or footing; and hence,
stumble; then, to err, go astray, trespass. Every departure from God is,
therefore, a missing of the mark, and trespass against Him.

(3) Iniquity is Ald (aven), a bending or curving; then, of actions,
acting crookedly or perversely. It is generally rendered perverseness.
See Isa. 53:5 (where it is rendered iniquities), 6, 11; Jer. 33:8.

The first of these three words refers specially to thought, the
second to deed, and the third to word.

The first is “forgiven”: i.e., taken up and carried away (Gen. 27:3
(take); 58. 53:4 (borne), 12 (bare).

The second is “covered” by atonement.

The third is “not imputed”: i.e., not reckoned or counted. Gen.
50:20 : “Ye thought (or meant) evil against me; but God meant it for
good. (Here, we have the same word twice).

“Oh! the blessednessess!
Rebellion forgiven;
Errings atoned for;
Perverseness not imputed (or remembered).”

Compare Psa. 103:14 and. Isa. 43:25, where our infirmities which
man will not remember or make allowance for, God remembers, but
our sins and iniquities which man always remembers, God will
remember no more for ever.

Psa. 89:30-31 (34, 32).-
“If his children forsake my law,
And walk not in my judgments;

If they break my statutes,

And keep not my commandments.”

Here the Synonymia is alternated (positive and negative); together
with alternated Anaphora.

Pro. 4:14-15.-Here, the synonyms are heaped together to emphasize
the necessity, of avoiding all evil and evil persons.
“Enter not into the path of the wicked,
And go not in the way of evil men;

Avoid it,

Pass not by it,

Turn from it,

And pass away.”
Isa. 1:4.-Here, four synonymous descriptions are used to give some
estimate of Israel's condition. See under Anabasis and Ejphonesis.
Isa. 2:11-17.-We have already seen under the figure of Polysyndeton
(q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), how this passage is emphasised both by
that figure and by its structure.

We have now to note the bearing of another figure upon it: viz.,
Synonymia. But the use of this figure, the Synonyms are heaped
together in order still further to attract our attention; and to impress as
with the importance and emphasis, which the Holy Spirit would have
us give to this Scripture; in which “the Day of the Lord” is first
mentioned, and in which the essence of its meaning and character is
given.
There are two classes of words-a kind of double Synonymia-going
on at the same time: one marking the pride of man and the true
exaltation of the Lord, which shall mark that Day, and the other the
abasement of man which shall then take place.

Isa. 2:11. The lofty (aaa, gavah) looks of man shall be
humbled (1106, shaphel),
And the haughtiness (li, rum) of men shall be bowed
down (ga, shachach),
And the Lord alone shall be exalted (uaa, sagav) in that
day.
Isa. 2:12. For the Day of the Lord of hosts shail be upon every
one that is proud (afa, gaach) and lofty (i i, rum),
And upon every one (or thing) that is lifted up (dur,
nahsah);
And he shall be brought low (udé, shaphel):
Isa. 2:13. And upon all the cedars of Lebanon that are high
(i rum) and lifted up (dur, nasa),
And upon all the oaks of Bashan,
Isa. 2:14. And upon all the high ili, rum) mountains,
And upon all the hills that are lifted up (duit nasa),
Isa. 2:15. And upon every high (aaa, gavah) tower,
And upon every fenced wall,
Isa. 2:16. And upon all the ships of Tarshish,
And upon all pleasant pictures.
Isa. 2:17. And the loftiness (daa, navah) of man shall be
bowed down (uaa, shachah),
And the haughtiness li, rum) of men shall be made low
(UGE, shaphen):
And the Lord alone shall be exalted (uaa, sagav) in that
day.”
Here we have five words for high repeated fourteen times; and two
words for {ουν repeated five times.
The five:-
aaa (gavah). Three times: lofty, verse 11; high, verse 15;
loftiness, verse 17 (in R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] ‚ verses 11 and 15, lofty; in verse 17, loftiness),
tli (rum). Five times: haughtiness, verses 11, 17; lofty, verse
12 (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , haughty);
high, verses 13, 14 (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
18841, high).
waa (sagav). Twice: exalted, verses 11, 17 (so R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] ).
afa (gaah). Once: proud, verse 12 (so R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ).
dtr (nasa). Three times: lifted up, verses 12, 13, 14 (so R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).
The two:-
udé (shaphel). Three times: humbled, verse 11; brought low,
verse 12; made low, verse 17 (R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] , brought low).
ἧςς (shachach). Twice: bowed down, verses 11, 17 (so R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).
These two words occur also in verse 9.
It will be seen that the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has quite destroyed the figure
by its variety of rendering. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] has evidently aimed at more uniformity, and has preserved one
English word for each Hebrew word, except in two cases, where in
verses 13 and 14 they have rendered ili (rum), high, and in 11, 17,
haughtiness, and 12, haughty. “Haughty” could hardly be used of trees
and mountains, but “high” could have been used of men, and thus
have made the translation uniform.

This is the first occurrence of the expression “the day of the Lord,”
and hence its definition is thus given and thus emphasized by the
figure of Synonymia.

The structure of the definition lends weight and solemnity to the
description:

А — 11. Definition of the Day. “Man” and “Men” brought low, and

God alone exalted.
В 12. Persons (every one).
В 13-16. Things (every thing).
А — 17. Definition of the Day. “Man” and “Men” brought low, and
God alone exalted.
The order of the words too in A and A is remarkable. In connection
with the loftiness of man they are arranged alternately.
verse 11.
Aa aaa (gavah),
b ἥί (rum),
verse 17.
Aa aaa (gavah),
b ἥί (rum),
While in the humbling of man they are arranged in an Epanodos
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] )
verse 11.
Α ο ὑἡὑδδ (shaphel),
а UGG (shachach),
verse 17.
A d UGG (shachach),
ο udé (shaphel),
Isa. 52:13.-“Behold my servant ... shall be exalted, and extolled, and
be very high.”

Thus the future exaltation of the Messiah is emphasized.

Jer. 13:17.-“But if ye will not hear it, my soul shall weep in secret
places for your pride; and mine eye shall weep sore, and run down
with tears, because the Lord’s flock is carried away captive.”

This sorrow of the prophet thus emphasized was seen in greater
solemnity when the Saviour in later days wept over Jerusalem (Luk.
19:41).

Jer. 48:29.-“We have heard the pride of Moab,
(he is exceeding proud),
his loftiness,
and his arrogancy,
and his pride,
and the haughtiness of his heart.”
Here is a six-fold Synonymia combined with Parenthesis (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ) and Polysyndeton. And all to exhibit the terrible
pride of Moab which was to be punished. Compare Isa. 16:6.

Nah. 2:11-12 (12, 13).-
“Where is the dwelling of the lions,
And the feeding place of the young lions,
Where the lion, even the old lion, walked, and the lion’s
whelp,
And none made them afraid?
The lion did tear them in pieces enough for his whelps,
And strangled for his lionesses,” etc.
Zep. 1:15.-“That day is
a day of wrath,
a day of trouble
and distress,
a day of wasteness
and desolation,
a day of darkness,
and gloominess,
a day of clouds
and thick darkness.”

Here these Synonyms are heaped up to impress the wicked with
the terrors of “that day.” This is further heightened by being combined
with the figures: Epizeuxis (q.v. [Note: Which see] ), verse 14,
Mesarchia (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ), Mesadiplosis (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ), Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), and Asyndeton (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).

Zep. 2:9.-Moab and Ammon shall be as Sodom and Gomorrah,
“aven the breeding of nettles,
and saltpits,
and a perpetual desolation.”
Mar. 12:30.-“And thou shalt love the Lord thy God
with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul,
and with all thy mind,
and with all thy strength.”

Thus is the first and great commandment emphasized by the
combined figures of Homoeoteleuton (q.v. [Note: Which see] ),
Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), and Synonymia, in order to
convict us of the impossibility of keeping this law and to bring us to the
feet of Christ, who alone could keep it: that so we might be impressed
with a sense of our own impotence, and cause us thankfully to cast
ourselves on His omnipotence (see Luk. 10:27).

Luk. 10:27.-See Mar. 12:30.
Act. 2:23.-“Counsel and foreknowledge, Crucified and
slain.”
Rom. 2:4.-“Or despisest thou the riches of His
goodness,
and forbearance,
and longsuffering?”
Here Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) is combined with
Synonymia.
Rom. 2:7.-“To them who by patient continuation in well-doing seek for
glory,
and honour,
and immortality,
[He will give] eternal life.”
See under Ellipsis.
Rom. 2:8-9.-“But unto them that are contentious, and do not obey the
truth, but obey unrighteousness, [will be rendered]
indignation and
wrath,
tribulation, and
anguish.”
See under Ellipsis.
Rom. 2:10.-“But glory, honour, and peace [will be rendered] to every
man that worketh good, etc.”
See under Ellipsis.
Rom. 2:18-20.-In these verses the synonyms are heaped together to
describe the Jew who causes the Name of God to be blasphemed
among the Gentiles (verse 24).
Rom. 6:6.-“Knowing this that our old man is (was) crucified with him
(Christ), that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we
should not serve sin.”
Here all three terms refer, by the figure of Synonymia, to different
aspects of the same thing:
The “old man” expresses the origin in Adam.
By reason of its powers and operations it is called “the body of
sin,” or sinful body.
And, lastly, its very nature and character is expressed by the name
of “sin.”
Rom. 9:33.-“Stumbling-stone and rock of offence.”
Rom. 10:15.-“Gospel of peace, and ... glad tidings of good things.”
1Co. 14:21.-“With men of other tongues and other lips, etc.”
Gal. 1:12.-“For | neither received it of man, neither was | taught it,
but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.”

Thus is emphasized the special commission which Paul received
direct from God; and thus is it distinguished from that commission
which had been given to the Twelve.
Gal. 5:19-21.-The works of the flesh are emphasized by sixteen
synonyms, and by the figure of Asyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see-_] ).
Eph. 1:20-21.-To describe the exaltation of Christ we are told how He
has been set “Far above all

principality,

and power,

and might,

and dominion,

and every name that is named,” etc.
Eph. 5:19.-Here the three synonyms, “Psalms, and hymns, and
spiritual songs,” are used to emphasize the true inward and spiritual
occupation of the heart with Christ, which is at once the result of being
“filled with the Spirit” (verse 18), and the test or the measure of being
so filled.

It may be well to define these synonyms: Ψαλμός (psalmos)
means a touching, then a touching of an instrument with a “plectrum.”
ψάλλω (рзайф), the verb, means to sweep the strings. So that the
noun was used first of the instrument, and then of the song
accompanied by it. It is used seven times in the New Testament, and
four times of the Book of Psalms (Luk. 20:42; Luk. 24:44. Act. 1:20;
Act. 13:33), and three times of psalms generally (1Co. 14:26. Eph.
5:19. Col. 3:16). This points to the conclusion that the psalms referred
to here are the inspired Psalms of the Old Testament.

ὕμνος (hymnos), whence our word “hymn,” which was originally a
heathen word used of a song in praise of a god or hero after death.
The word was so steeped in profane and idolatrous associations that
the early Christians hesitated to use it, and it was not till the fourth
century that it came to be generally adopted. But then it was
studiously confined to a direct address of praise and glory to the true
and living God; whereas the Psalm might commemorate the mercies
and blessings He bestowed. It occurs only here and Col. 3:16. The
verb ὑμνέω (hymned) occurs four times (Mat. 26:30. Mar. 14:26. Act.
16:25, and Heb. 2:12). The latter two passages fully confirm the
limited use of the word: “And sang praises unto God” (Act. 16:25).
“Will | sing praise unto Thee” (Heb. 2:12), while the former two would
refer to the Old Testament Psalms always sung at the Passover.

ᾠδή (фаее), whence our word “ode,” occurs seven times,* [Note:
The verb dwt (ad › ) occurs five times (Eph. 5:19. Col. 3:16. Rev. 5:9;
Rev. 14:3; Rev. 15:3).] five in the Apocalypse, and two in the Epistles
(Eph. 5:19, and Col. 3:16), where it is specially combined with
πνευματική (pneumatikee) spiritual, implying very strongly that they
were composed by spiritual persons, and had to do only with the
things pertaining to the Spirit of God. The heathen used it of any kind
of song: harvest, festal, wedding, or battle, etc. Hence the limitation
suggested by the word “spiritual,” as distinct from these.

Although the first word, psalmos, implies musical instruments, it
was only in Old Testament worship that these were used: not in the
New Testament, nor in the Primitive Church. Basil, Ambrose, and
Chrysostom all speak in panegyrics on music, but do not mention
instrumental music. Indeed, Clement of Alexandria, forbade the use of
the flute in the Agape, though he permitted the harp. Basil condemns
it, and Justin Martyr expressly says that it was not used in the
Christian Church.

There is no gift of God which fallen man has not misused, and
indeed diverted, or rather perverted from its original design. The great
enemy uses it for the destruction of spiritual worship, under the guise
of aiding it; and few discern the meshes of his marvellously clever
snare.t [Note: See Intoned Prayers and Musical Services, by the
same author and publisher. One penny.]
Music and singing are clearly defined in these two passages Eph.
5:19 and Col. 3:16. The three verbs are “speaking,” “teaching,” and
“admonishing.” This is to be done “to yourselves,” “in you,” “in your
hearts,” “admonishing yourselves” (ἑαυτούς, heautous), not “one
another” (see R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] margin). The
great requirement for this is “the Spirit” and “all wisdom” and “grace.”

The words “be filled with the Spirit* [Note: It will be seen, under the
Figure of Metonymy, that the word “Spirit” here (as in several other
passages) is put for the gifts of the Spirit.) ” are usually quoted as
though they were followed by a full stop, and formed a complete
sentence. This is not the case. How is any one to know whether he is
filled with the Spirit? The answer is given:-

“The word of Christ” will dwell in him richly: i.e., the word spoken
by Christ and the word relating to Christ: the word which has Christ for
its object and Christ for its subject, or Christ Himself “by” (ἐν, en) the
Spirit.

This indwelling of Christ will be the evidence of the Holy Spirit’s
presence and operation. For the Spirit and the Word can never be
separated. He gives it; and He uses it, and operates through it. It is
His work to take of the things of Christ and show them unto us, and
thus to “glorify” Christ; never calling our attention to His work in us, but
to Christ’s work for us.

When this word thus dwells in us, we shall be full of its wondrous
Psalms; we shall be speaking in ourselves to God, by our hymns: and
our songs will be spiritual, because they will be sung in our hearts.
There will be the melody which ascends and reaches up to the
Presence of God: because it will be a “singing by grace and with grace
unto God.”

This occupation of the heart with Christ and His Word will be the
measure in which we are filled with the Spirit (i.e., with spiritual gifts).

It will be the singing of the “heart,” and not of the throat: and it will
be “to the praise and glory of God” (as it used to be) and not to the
praise and glory of the choir or of the performers. The heart which is
indwelt by the Spirit, can sing to God. It will need no “soloist” to do it
by proxy. For we are not commanded to listen to the singing of
another or others, however exquisite it may be, but to sing ourselves
as worshippers. This singing requires no “ear for music,” but it needs a
“heart” for Christ. For this music comes from God and returns to God.

In the Word of God, prayer is always spoken, and never sung:-

“Moses besought the Lord, saying” (Deu. 3:23; Exo. 32:11, etc.).
“Manoah intreated the Lord), and said” (Jdg. 13:8).

“Hannah prayed, and said” (1Sa. 2:1).

“Elisha prayed, and said” (2Ki. 6:17).

“Daniel prayed, and made confession, and said’ (Dan. 9:4; Dan.
9:20).

Indeed prayer is contrasted with praise, for “Solomon spread forth
his hands towards heaven, and said’ (1Ki. 8:22-23; 1Ki. 8:54). But
when it is a question of praise then we read that it was made with
music and singing. (2Ch. 5:12-13).

In the upper room the Lord and His apostles “sang a hymn” (Mat.
26:30); but when in Gethsemane “He fell on his face and prayed,
saying” (verse 39).

In Jam. 5:13 they are again set in contrast: “Is any among you
afflicted? let him pray. Is any merry? let him sing psalms.”
This universal testimony of Scripture settles for us the question as
to the distinction between prayer embodied in hymns and prayer sung
instead of said. That testimony of Scripture is dead against the singing
of prayers in any form or manner. It draws no distinction between
intoning prayers and singing them. Intoning is singing, and nothing
else: it is merely singing on one note instead of many. It is art and
artificial; it is unnatural and unreal-neither pleasing to God nor edifying
for man.

Public worship is that in which the Word of God should be read,
prayers prayed, and praise sung. God’s Word we read, not as our
own, but as His, for our instruction. In prayer and praise we say and
sing our own words, as our own. It is therefore no argument to urge
that the Psalms were sung and they contain prayers. For

(1) We do not admit the first premises. Too little is known to justify
the assertion that all the Psalms were sung. Some were, undoubtedly;
and these may be sung by us to-day, if we can adopt the words as our
own; but not otherwise.

(2) We cannot adopt the words of all the Psalms as our own, but
only so far as they are in harmony with the New Testament teaching
as to our standing in Christ. The language of those which were under
the Old Covenant of Works cannot be adopted as the language of
those who are under the New Covenant of Grace.

We may read them as we read the other Scriptures for our
instruction, but we might just as well sing the Lessons as sing some of
the Psalms.

Again we repeat, therefore, the other New Testament Rubrick-“Is
any afflicted? let him pray. Is any merry? let him sing Psalms” (Jam.
5:13); and we conclude that prayer is to be said, and praise is to be
sung. Praise may even be said; for three times are songs said to be
spoken. The Song of Moses (Deu. 31:30); the Song of Deborah (Jdg.
5:12); and the Song of David (2Sa. 22:1; Psa. 18:1-50 Title). But, while
praise may be spoken, prayer is never said to be sung.

Instead, therefore, of flying in the face of the universal testimony of
Scripture, simply because prayer is embodied by human poets in our
hymns, we ought rather to question whether the prayer in hymns
should not be said, and only our hymns of praise sung. But habits
once formed are too strong for us to entertain the hope of making so
radical a reformation; though it would be better, if not easier, to alter a
wrong habit than to alter the testimony of the Word of God.

Php. 4:9.-“Those things which ye have both learned,
and received,
and heard,

and seen in me, do.”
Col. 1:16.-“For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and
that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or
dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by
him, and for him.”

Here we are impressed with the wonders of the invisible world, of
which so little is revealed.

Col. 3:16.-See Eph. 5:19.
1Ti. 1:2.-“Grace, mercy, and peace.”

So also in the other two so-called “Pastoral Epistles,” 2Ti. 1:2, and
Tit. 2:4.

In all the other epistles it is only “grace,” or “grace and peace.” In
these three epistles “mercy” is added: as though to imply that with the
many responsibilities of the pastoral office, God’s “mercy” would be
specially needed by those who exercised pastoral duties in the Church
of God.
1Ti. 3:15.-“That thou mayest know how thou oughtest (Π.Ν. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] , how men ought) to behave thyself [or what
conduct is incumbent on us] in

the house of God,

which is the Church of the living God,

the pillar and ground of the truth.”
What this is is shown in the next verse, viz., the “great secret”
concerning Christ Mystical and not Christ Personal.* [Note: See The
Mystery, by the same author and publisher.

See also under Hendiadys.]

This great Mystery is the Body of Christ, the House in which God
dwells by His Spirit; the assembly of the saints peculiarly belonging to
the living God, as purchased with the blood of the everlasting
covenant; and this is the pillar and ground-the great foundation pillar
of the truth, so specially revealed to Paul to make known among the
Gentiles.
2Ti. 1:2.-See 1Ti. 1:2.
2Ti. 3:14-15.-“But continue thou in the things which thou
hast learned and
hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou
hast learned them. And that from a child thou
hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise,
etc.”

Here the importance of personal knowledge and study of the word
of God is enforced: not a mere acquaintance with the letter, but an
assurance of the truth.
Tit. 1:4.-See 1Ti. 1:2.
Repeated Negation; or, Many Noes
The Repetition of divers Negatives
This seems to deserve a place by itself, though the Greeks did not
classify it, or name it. They used it, however, and this is the all-
important point.

It is a special form of Synonymia, the synonyms being negatives of
different kinds heaped together for a special purpose.

Negatives are repeated even in English to strengthen and increase
the emphasis: just as we say “No, no,” “No, | will not.” But in the Greek
this is done much more emphatically. Two or more negatives are used
to strengthen the assertion.

These negatives are οὐ (ou) and µή (mee), which both equally
mean no or not.
As we are now considering their combined use we need not too
closely define their separate use. Otherwise we might enlarge on the
fact that the one, oU (ou), denies absolutely what is a matter of fact,
and negatives an affirmation: the other µή (mee) denies hypothetically
what is implied, and negatives a supposition.

This difference may be seen in such passages as 1Co. 2:14 (οὐ).
Joh. 3:18, where we have οὐ in the first sentence, and µή (both times)
in the second.

Mat. 22:29.-“Ye do err not (µή, mee), knowing the Scriptures.” Here
the µή (mee) denies subjectively, not absolutely, implying that though
they did actually know the letter, they did not wish to know their truth.

When however they and their compounds, οὐδὲ µή (oude mee),
and οὖδε οὐ µή (oude ou mee), are used together, this difference is
sunk, and the combination produces a most solemn and emphatic
asseveration.

Indeed, so strong is it, that whenever man used it the result always
belied it. See:-

Mat. 16:22 : where Peter says “This shall not be unto thee.” But it
was.
Joh. 13:8 : Peter says again, “Thou shalt never wash my feet.” But
Christ did.
Mat. 26:35 : where Peter affirms “I will not deny thee.” But he did.
Joh. 20:25 : Thomas says, “Except | shall see, etc., | will not believe.”
But he did.

On the other hand, our Lord often used this figure: and, whenever
He did so, He always made it good:-
Mat. 5:18.-“Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle* [Note: This
is a little ornament something like a fleur-de-lis over certain letters.
The Hebrew name for this is Taag, or little crown (plural Taagim). The
Greek is ё:5\ (keraia), a little horn, which is exactly what the Taag is.
See The Massorah, by the same author and publisher, One Shilling.
The jot or yod is the smallest letter of the alphabet. For full information
on this subject see Dr. Ginsburg’s Introduction to the Hebrew Bible,
published by the Trinitarian Bible Society.] shall in no wise pass from
the law, etc.” Here we have the certainty of Divine Truth.

Mat. 5:20.-“Except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness
of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the
kingdom of heaven.” Here we have the absolute necessity of Divine
righteousness.

Mat. 5:26.-“Thou shalt by no means come out thence till thou hast
paid the uttermost farthing.” Here we have the inflexibility of Divine
justice.

Mat. 13:14.-As in Act. 28:26, we have here the solemn announcement
concerning Israel's judicial blindness, emphasising and strengthening
its certainty.

Mat. 16:28.-The certainty of His promise as to the manifestation of His
coming glory (see 17:1-5, and 2Pe. 1:16-18).
Mat. 18:3.-The absolute necessity of conversion.
Mat. 23:39.-The certainty of His words concerning the conditions as to
His return.
Mat. 24:2.-Completeness of the overthrow and dismemberment of the
Temple.
Mat. 24:21.-The greatness of the tribulation.
Mat. 24:34.-The fact that when once these things begin to come to
pass (γέηται, not πληρόω, compare Luk. 21:24; Luk. 21:32), that
generation which sees the abomination of desolation set up (verse 15)
shall see “all these things” come to pass.
Mat. 24:35.-The inviolability of Christ’s words.

Mat. 26:29.-The certitude of Christ's pledge (Mar. 14:25. Luk.
22:18).

Luk. 6:37.-The certainty of divers promises. So Luk. 10:19.

Luk. 18:7.-The speediness of the Divine avenging.

Luk. 18:30.-The certainty of the future recompense.

Luk. 21:18.-The perfectness of Divine protection.
Luk. 22:67-68.-The accuracy of the Lord’s foreknowledge.

Joh. 4:14.-The satisfying power of the Divine gifts.

Joh. 4:48.-The obstinacy of unbelief.

Joh. 6:35.-The satisfying power of “the bread of life.”

Joh. 8:12.-The perfection of the Divine light.

Joh. 8:51-52.-Eternal security for the keepers of Christ's sayings.

Joh. 10:5.-The miraculous power of His sheep’s spiritual instinct.

Joh. 10:28.-The Divine preservation of Christ's sheep.

Joh. 11:26.-The certainty of being “changed in a moment” for those
who are “alive and remain’ till His coming.

Once this repeated negation was used by an angel-Gabriel, in Luk.
1:15, of John the Baptist, that “he shall neither drink wine nor strong
drink.” And this was perfectly fulfilled (Mat. 11:18).

But there is one more use of the figure by Christ, so blessed and
so important that we have reserved it to the last:-
Joh. 6:37.-“All (πᾶν 6, pan ho, everything) that the Father giveth
me shall come to (ἤξει, heexei, will reach) me; and him that cometh
(τόν ἐρχόμενον, ton erchomenon, he who is on his way to) to me | will
in no wise cast out.”

The repeated “not” in the Greek is thus beautifully rendered, and
George Keith effectively sums it up in his hymn on Heb. 13:5 : “I will
never leave thee nor forsake thee,” where we have the οὐ µή in both
clauses:-

“The soul that on Jesus has fled for repose,

He cannot, He will not desert to his foes;

That soul, though all hell should endeavour to shake,
He'll never, no never, no never forsake.”
4. Repetition of Sentences and phrases
Cycloides; or, Circular Repetition
The Repetition of the same Phrase at regular Intervals
Cy-clo-id’-es means having the form of a circle; from κύκλος (kuklos).
a circle, and εἶδος (eidos), form.

The figure is so called because the sentence or phrase is repeated
at intervals, as though in regular circles.

When this repetition occurs at the end of successive passages, as
in poetry, in the form of a Refrain or Burden, it is called AMCEBZON
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ). But when it occurs at the beginning or
middle or any other part of the passage it is called Cycloides.
2Sa. 1:19; 2Sa. 1:25; 2Sa. 1:27.-Where we have the burden of the
lamentation three times, “How are the mighty fallen.”

Psa. 42:5; Psa. 42:11 (6, 12) and 43:5.-We have the three-fold
emphasis on the great question: “Why art thou cast down, O my soul?
and the blessed answer, “Hope thou in God!”

Psa. 46:7; Psa. 46:11.-Here, the phrase occurs twice, “The Lord of
hosts is with us: the God of Jacob is our refuge.”

Psa. 56:4; Psa. 56:10 (5, 11).-Where we have the sentence repeated,
to emphasize the fact that when our enemies seem mightiest, we can
say, “In God will | praise His word.”

Psa. 80:3; Psa. 80:7; Psa. 80:19 (4, 8, 20).-Three times we have the
prayer: “Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine, and we
shall be saved.”

Jer. 3:12; Jer. 3:22.-Where we have the twice repeated command to
the backsliding People to “return.”

Eze. 32:20-26; Eze. 32:28-32, -Twelve times we have the expression
repeated “Slain with the sword,” at intervals, irregularly, but twelve
times to denote the judgment as being executed by Divine
government.* [Note: See Number in Scripture, by the same author and
publisher.]
AmecebZon; or, Refrain
The Repetition of the same Phrase at the End of successive
Paragraphs

Am-ce-bf-on. № is from the Greek ἁμοιβή (amoibee), change,
alteration (from ἁμείβειν (ameibein), to change. It is used of the
repetition of the same phrase or sentence, where it occurs in poetry at
the end of successive periods.

Cycloides may occur at the beginning, or middle, or any part of the
circle, but AmoebZon only at the end.

This burden, therefore, thus emphasized is the main point for us to
notice in what is being said.
Psa. 118:1-4.-Where, we have the refrain “For His mercy endureth for
ever.” (See under Symploce).
Psa. 136:1-26 -Where at the end of every verse, we have the refrain,
“For His mercy endureth for ever.”
Isa. 9:12; Isa. 9:17; Isa. 9:21; Isa. 10:4.-Where we have the four-fold
burden, to emphasize the solemn warning, “For all this his anger is not
turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.”
Amo. 4:6; Amo. 4:8-11.-Here we have the solemn refrain five times

repeated “Yet have ye not returned unto me saith the Lord.”

Mat. 6:2; Mat. 6:5; Mat. 6:16.-Where we have the thrice repeated

lesson, “Verily ... they have their reward.” See under /diom.

Luk. 13:3; Luk. 5:1-39.-Where, twice, we have the solemn words, “I

tell you, Nay; but except ye repent ye shall all likewise perish.”

Joh. 6:39-40; Joh. 6:44; Joh. 6:54.-Four times we have the glorious

fact repeated for our assurance, | will raise him up at the last day.”
This, of course, is the Resurrection which was the subject of Old

Test ment prophecy, and the one referred to in Rev. 20:1-15 (the first

or former of the two there named). But not the one which was the

subject of a special revelation to the Church of God in 1Th. 4:16.
Rev. 2:7; Rev. 2:11; Rev. 2:17; Rev. 2:29; Rev. 3:6; Rev. 3:13; Rev.
3:22.-Seven times, at the end of each of these Epistles is the solemn
burden repeated “He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit
saith unto the Churches.”

These words are in the figure called Polyptoton (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ,) but this seven-fold repetition, is the figure of Amoebfon. See
under Polyptoton for the significance of this phrase, as here used.*
[Note: Also the series of articles in Things to Come, commencing
September, 1898.]

Rev. 18:21-23.-Here, the figure Epistrophe in the repetition of the
words “no more at all” becomes the figure AmoebZon in that the words
are a solemn burden or refrain in announcing the judgment on
Babylon.
Ccenotes; or, Combined Repetition
The Repetition of two different Phrases: one at the Beginning and the
Other at the End of successive Paragraphs
Cee’-no-tees. Greek, κοινότης (koinotees), sharing in common. The
figure is so called when two separate phrases are repeated, one at the
beginning and the other at the end of successive sentences or
paragraphs.

When only words are thus repeated, the figure is called Symploce
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ), which is repeated Epanadiplosis.

It is a combination of Anaphora and Epistrophe; but, affecting
phrases rather than single words.

The Latins sometimes called this figure (as well as Symploce)
COMPLEXIO, combination.
Psa. 118:2-4.-This is clearer in the Hebrew, where the three verses
begin successively with the words, “Let say,” and end With the words,
“for his mercy endureth for ever.”
Psa. 118:8-9.-

“It is better to trust in the Lord

than to put confidence in man:
It is better to trust in the Lord
than to put confidence in princes.”

See also Psa. 118:15-16.-

“The right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly,

The right hand of the Lord is exalted:

The right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly.”

In verses 10-12 there are three figures combined: There is
Anaphora, in the repetition of “They compassed me” at the beginning
of several clauses; Epistrophe, in the repetition of “In the name of the
Lord | will destroy them” at the end; and in verse 11 we have
Epizeuxis in “they compassed me” being repeated in immediate
succession.

Psa. 136:1-3.-Where the three successive verses begin with the
words, “O, give thanks,” and end with the words “for his mercy
endureth for ever.”
Epibole; or, Overlaid Repetition
The Repetition of the same Phrase at irregular Intervals

E-pi‘-bo-lee is from ἐπιβάλλειν (epiballein), to cast upon. The figure is
so named, because the same sentence or phrase is cast upon or laid
upon (like layers or courses of bricks) several successive paragraphs.

It thus differs from Anaphora (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) in that it
consists of the repetition of several words, whereas in Anaphora only
one word is repeated.
Exo. 16:35.-“And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years,
until they came to a land inhabited; they did eat manna, until they
came unto the borders of the land of Canaan.”
Num. 9:18.-“At the commandment of the Lord the children of Israel
journeyed, and at the commandment of the Lord they pitched.”
Jdg. 5:27.-

“At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down:

At her feet he bowed, he fell: where he bowed, there he fell

down dead.”
See under Anaphora, and Asyndeton.
Psa. 29:3-4 (twice), 5, 7, 8, 9.-Where seven times, we have the
words, “The voice of the Lord,” commencing seven successive
clauses. The number of spiritual perfection.
Isa. 2:7-8.-“Their land also is full of silver and gold ... Their land
also is full of idols.”
Isa. 5:8; Isa. 5:11; Isa. 5:18; Isa. 5:20-22.-Six times we have
paragraphs beginning “Woe unto them.”
Mat. 6:19-20.-We cannot forbear to quote these verses according to
their structure.
Α Lay not up for yourselves.
В Treasures upon earth,
C Where moth and rust doth corrupt,
Ώ And where thieves break through and steal:
Α But lay up for yourselves.
В Treasures in heaven,
C Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt,
Р And where thieves do not break through nor steal.
It will be seen how in each member there is the Correspondence
(q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) of the same words, ог thought, by way of
comparison or contrast.
Act. 20:22; Act. 25:1-27.-Where two solemn statements are
emphasized by commencing
“And now, behold, | go ...
And now, behold, | know.”
Synantesis; or, Introverted Repetition
The Repetition of the same Sentences or Phrases in Inverse Order
Syn-an-tee-sis, from συναντάω (sunantaq), to meet face to face,
means a meeting.
It is similar to Epanodos and Antimetabole (q.v. [Note: Which see.]
), but differs from them in that it relates to the inverse repetition of
sentences and phrases rather than of single words.
See, for examples, under Parallelism and Correspondence, below.
5. Repetition of Subjects
Parallelism; or, Parallel Lines
The Repetition of similar, synonymous, or opposite Thoughts or Words
in parallel or successive Lines

This form of sacred writing has been noted from the earliest times. De
Rossi,* [Note: Kitto. Bib. Cyc. Ill. 702.] a learned Jew of the sixteenth
century, first published a mass of information on the subject in a
remarkable work, Meor Enajim (i.e., The Light of the Eyes). Bishop
Lowth translated chapter 60+ [Note: Lowth’s Translation of Isaiah,
Prel. Dis. p. xxviii. (15th Ed. 1857).] , which deals with the construction
of lines: and Bishop Jebb in his Sacred Literature extended the study.
But none of these got beyond Parallelism as it is applied to lines. This
has universally gone under the name of, and been treated as, Poetry.

It is a form of the figure Synonymia, by which the subject of one
line is repeated in the next line in different, but so-called, synonymous
terms.

Parallelism is of seven kinds: three simple and four complex:-

|. Simple.
1. Synonymous or Gradational.
2. Antithetic or Opposite.
3. Synthetic or Constructive.
Il. Complex.
1. Alternate. Two lines repeated only once (four lines in all).
2. Repeated Alternation. Two lines repeated more than once.
3. Extended Alternation. Three or more lines repeated.
4. Introverted.
|. Simple
1. Synonymous or Gradational
This is when the lines are parallel in thought, and in the use of
synonymous words.
The oldest example, and the first in the Bible, is in
Gen. 4:23-24.-In these oldest human poetic lines Lamech celebrates
the invention of weapons of war: and it is significant that this should be
the first subject of poetry! Lamech’s son was “an instructor of every
artificer in brass and iron,” and the injury of others was the earliest
application of the art.

Lamech is so elated with that which would give him power among
men that he at once breaks out in eulogy; and boasts that if any one
injures him, he would outdo even Jehovah in His punishment of those
who should injure Cain.

There are three pairs of lines, and the synonymous words will be
at once seen, as we have exhibited them:-

“Adah and Zillah hearken to my voice;
Ye wives of Lamech listen to my speech.
For | can slay a man, if he injures me,
And a young man, if he hurts me.

If Cain shall be avenged seven-fold,
Truly Lamech [shall be avenged]* [Note: See under
Ellipsis.] seventy-seven-fold.”
Luk. 1:46-47.-
“My soul doth magnify the Lord,
And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.”
Psa. 1:1.-“Blessed is the man
that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly,
nor standeth in the way of sinners,
nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.”
Here, we have three series of gradation:-
Walketh,
standeth,
sitteth,
Counsel,
way,
seat.
Ungodly,
sinners,
scornful.

These gradations point us to the fact that there is a mine of truth
contained in the verse, on which a volume might be written.

The tenses also have their lessons for us too, for they imply “that
never did walk ... stand ... sit’: and so help to teach us that in this first
Psalm David speaketh “concerning”: i.e., “with an ultimate reference
to” (εἰς, eis), “Christ” (See Act. 2:25). In fact, this first Psalm speaks of
Christ as the one perfect Man; while the second speaks of Him as the
one perfect King: (“the model Shepherd,” He Himself says He is: ©
ποιμὴν © καλός (Πο poimeen ho kalos), not simply © καλὸς ποιµήν (Πο
kalos poimeen): and then twice over at least (see Joh. 10:11; Joh.
14:1-31); and so, too, is He the “model” Man and the “model” King.
2. Antithetic, or Opposite
This is when the words are contrasted in the two or more lines, being
opposed in sense the one to the other.
Pro. 10:1.-
“A wise son maketh a glad father;
But a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother”
Pro. 27:6.-
“Faithful are the wounds of a friend,
But deceitful are the kisses of an enemy”
3. Synthetic, or Constructive
This is where the parallelism consists only in the similar form of
construction:-
Psa. 19:7-9.-
“The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul:
The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple.
The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart:
The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes.
The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring for ever:
The judgments of the Lord are true, and righteous altogether”
Here, there is neither gradation nor opposition of words in the
several lines; which are independent, and depend for their parallelism
on their construction.
In all the above cases the lines are simply parallel, and are chiefly
in pairs.
When the parallelism appears in four or more lines, then it may be
called
Il. Complex
1. Alternate
This is when the lines are placed alternately. In this case, the first and
third lines, and the second and fourth lines, may, as a rule, be read
continuously, while the intervening line is thus placed in a parenthesis.
These alternate lines may be either synonymous or antithetic.
Gen. 19:25.-
а “The cities (and He overthrew)
Ь — The plain (and all the plain),
а — The inhabitants of the cities,
Ь — The produce of the plain.”
Deu. 32:21.-
a “They have moved me to jealousy
ЬБ — with that which is not God:
а — They have provoked me to anger
b_ with their vanities:
ο And! will move them to jealousy
@ — with those which are not a people:
ο | will provoke them to anger
а with a foolish nation.”
Deu. 32:42.-Here a and a are continuous, and likewise b and b. They
must be so read, thus dispensing with the italics. The line b we give
from the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
а “I will make mine arrows drunk with blood,
b — апа my sword shall devour much flesh;
а with the blood of the slain and of the captives,
Ь from the head of the leaders of the enemy.”
Here a and a relate to the arrows, while b and b refer to the sword.
1Ch. 21:22.-
а — Request. “Grant me the place of this threshingfloor.”
Ь Design. “That I may build an altar therein unto the Lord.”
а Request. “Thou shalt grant it me for the full price.”
Ь Design. “That the plague may be stayed from the people.”
Here a and a are continuous, likewise b and b. We must read on
from Ь to b, placing a in a parenthesis. This shows that the plague was
stayed, not because David paid the full price for the place, but
because of the atoning sacrifice which he offered.
Est. 8:5.
а — The king. “If it please the king.”
Ь Esther’s personal influence. “And if 1 have found favour.”
а — The king. “And the thing seem right before the king.”
b Esther’s personal influence. “And | be pleasing in his
eyes.”
Pro. 18:24, -The parallel here is lost owing to an obscurity in the
Hebrew. The Massorah records that the word ru (osh) (which has
been taken by translators as another spelling of réu (eesh), а man)
is put three times* [Note: The other two passages are 2Sa. 14:19
(where the sense is unaffected, “If there is any that turn” meaning
“none can turn”), and Mic. 6:10, where the reading called Sevir which
is equal in authority to the Keri, is boldly adopted into the Text by both
the A.V. and the R.V. “Are there yet the treasures of wickedness in the
house of the wicked,” etc.] for éu (yesh), there is.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] avoids the italics of
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] which are put in to make some sort of sense owing to
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] having taken 6A UrIAN trom the wrong root (ha, to
feed), instead of ma, to break). So that instead of meaning to make
friends, it means (as in the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] )
to be broken in pieces. Hence, to ruin oneself.

The point and the parallel, therefore, lies in the plural “friends”: i.e.,
or many friends in contrast with the faithfulness of the one “friend”:-

а “There are “friends

b — Ю our own detriment:
а But there is a friend
Ь that sticketh closer than a brother.”
See under Paronomasia.
Pro. 24:19-20.
а “Fret not thyself because of evil men,
b neither be thou envious at the wicked;
а For there shall be no reward to the evil man;
Ь The candle of the wicked shall be put out.”
Isa. 1:29-30.-
a “For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which ye have
desired,
Ь — And ye shall be confounded for the gardens that ye have
chosen.
а Forye shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth,
Ь And asa garden that hath no water.”
Isa. 9:10.-
а “The bricks are fallen down,
b but we will build with hewn stones:
а — The sycomores are cut down,
Ь — Виё we will change them into cedars.”
Isa. 14:26-27.-
а “This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth:
b And this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the
nations,
а For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul
it?
Ь — And his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?”
Isa. 17:7-8.-
а “At that day shall a man look to his Maker,
Ь — апа his eyes shall have respect to the Holy One of Israel,
а And he shall not look to the altars, the work of his hands,
Ь neither shall respect that which his fingers have made:”
Isa. 18:6.-
а Fowls. “They shall be left, etc.”
Ь Beasts. “And to the beasts, etc.”
а Fowls. “And the fowls, etc.”
Ь Beasts. “And all the beasts, etc.”
Isa. 31:3.-
а “The Egyptians are men,
Ь — апа not God:
а And their horses flesh,
Ь — апа not spirit.”
See under Pleonasm.
Isa. 34:6.-Here the first and third lines are continuous, as are also the
second and fourth lines.
а “The sword of the Lord is filled with blood,
Ь — itis made fat with fatness,
а and with the blood of lambs and goats,
Ь — with the fat of the kidneys of rams.”
Isa. 51:20 (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).-Here a and a,
and b and b must be read together in order to catch the sense.
а “Thy sons have fainted,
Ь they lie [[6., are cast down]
а at the top of all the streets,
Ь — а5 an antelope in a net.”
Isa. 59:5-6.-
а “They hatch cockatrice’ eggs,
Ь — ап{ weave the spide’s web;
а — Не that eateth of their eggs dieth ..
Ь — Their webs shall not become garments.”
Isa. 61:4.-
а “And they shall build the old wastes,
Ь ἍΤΠΘΥ shall raise up the former desolations,
а and they shall repair the waste cities,
Ь — The desolations of many generations.”
See also under Epanodos, Antimetabole, and Chiasmos.
2. Repeated Alternation
This is not confined to two alternate lines repeated, making four lines
in all, as in the preceding examples; but in the repetition of the two
parallel subjects in several lines.
Isa. 65:21-22.-
а1 “And they shall build houses,
b1 and inhabit them;
а2 And they shall plant vineyards,
b2 and eat the fruit of them.
a3 They shall not build,
b3 and another inhabit;
a4 They shall not plant,
b4 and another eat.”
Or, these may be arranged in four longer alternate lines, thus:-
Positive.
а Houses (they shall build),
Ь Vineyards (they shall plant).
Negative.
а — Houses (they shall not build),
Ь — Vineyards (they shall not plant).
Where the first two lines are positive and the last negative.
1Jn. 2:15-16.-
a1 “If any man love the world,
b1 the love of the Father is not in him,
a2 For all that is in the world.
b2 is not of the Father,
83 but is of the world.”
3. Extended Alternation
The Scriptures abound with other illustrations of the arrangement of
alternate parallel lines.
But these alternate lines may consist not merely of two pairs, or of
four lines; or, of repeated alternations: the alternation may be
extended. That is to say, the alternation may be extended so as to
consist of three or more lines.
Jdg. 10:17.-
а “Then the children of Ammon
Ь — меге gathered together,
с — апа encamped in Gilead.
а And the children of Israel
b assembled themselves together,
ο. and encamped in Mizpeh.”
Mat. 6:19-20.-
а “Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth,
Ь — where moth and rust doth corrupt,
с — апа where thieves break through and steal:
a But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven,
Ь — where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt,
с — апа where thieves do not break through nor steal.”
See under Epibole.
4. Introverted Parallelisms
This is when the parallel lines are so placed that if there be six lines,
the first corresponds with the sixth, the second with the fifth, and the
third with the fourth.
When this Introversion consists only of words and of the same
words, it is called Epanodos (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
When Propositions are introverted, it is called Antimetabole (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).
When Subjects are introverted, it is called Chiasmus (see under
Correspondence).
Gen. 3:19.-
а End. “Till thou return unto the ground.”
b Origin. “For out of it was thou taken.”
Ь Origin. “For dust thou art.”
а End. “And unto dust shalt thou return.”
Exo. 9:31.-
а “And the flax
b — апа the barley was smitten:
Ь — For the barley was in the ear,
а and the flax was bolled.”
Num. 15:35-36.-
а “And the Lord said unto Moses,
Ь The man shall be surely put to death:
ο they shall stone him with stones,
4 — а! the congregation without the camp.
а And they brought him forth, all the congregation
without the camp,
с — апа stoned him with stones,
Ь — апа he died;
а — as the Lord commanded Moses.”
Deu. 32:16.-
а “They provoked Him to jealousy
Ь — with strange gods:
Ь — with abominations
а provoked they Him to anger.”
This shows that when “abominations” are spoken of, idols are
meant.
188. 1:2.-
а “The name of the one was Hannah,
b — апа the name of the other was Peninnah:
Ь And Peninnah had children,
а but Hannah had no children.”
2Sa. 3:1.-
а — “Now there was long war between the house of Saul
b — апа the house of David:
Ь but [the house ой David waxed stronger and stronger,
а — And the house of Saul waxed weaker and weaker.”
1ΚΙ. 16:22.-
а “But the people that followed Omri prevailed
b against the people that followed Tibni the son of Ginath:
Ь — So Tibni died,
а and Omri reigned.”
2Ch. 32:7-8.-
a Our resource. “There be more with us.”
Ь — Нб resource. “Than with him.”
Ь His resource. “With him is an arm of flesh.”
a Our resource. “But with us is the Lord our God.”
Psa. 76:1.-
а “In Judah
Ь — & God known:
Ь — His name is great
а In Israel.”
This shows how “the Name” of God stands, and is put for God
Himself. See under Metonomy.
Psa. 115:4-8.-
а 4-. The idols.
Ь — -4. Their fabrication.
ο 5-. Mouth without speech (singular in Heb.).
@ -5. Eyes without sight (plural).
е — 6-. Ears without hearing (pl. [Note: |. The Plural
Number.] )
# — -6. Nose without smell (sing. [Note: ing. The
Singular Number.] )
e 7-. Hands without handling (pl. [Note: |. The
Plural Number.] )
а -7. Feet without walking (pl. [Note: |. The Plural
Number.] )
с -7. Throat without voice (sing. [Note: ing. The Singular
Number] )
Ь — 8-. The fabricators.
а -8. The idolators.
Psa. 135:15-18.-
а — The idols of the heathen.
Ь — Their fabrication.
с Mouths without speech.
@ Eyes without sight.
а Ears without hearing.
с Mouths without breath.
Ь — The fabricators.
а The idolatrous heathen.
Pro. 1:26-27.-
а — “lL also will laugh at your destruction,
b | will mock when your fear cometh;
Ь When your fear cometh as desolation,
а and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind.”
Pro. 3:16.-
а — Blessings. “Length of days.”
Ь Hand. “Is in her right hand.”
Ь Hand. “And in her left hand.”
а Blessings. “Riches and honour.”
Isa. 5:7.-
а “For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts
Ь — is the house of Israel,
Ь — апа the men of Judah
а His pleasant plant.”
Isa. 6:10.-
а “Make the heart of this people fat,
Ь — апа make their ears heavy,
ο — апа shut their eyes;
ο. lest they see with their eyes,
Ь — апа hear with their ears,
а and understand with their heart.”
See under Polyptoton, page 299.
Isa. 11:4.-
а — “Не shall smite the oppressor,
Ь with the rod of his mouth,
Ь — апа with the breath of his lips
а Shall He slay the wicked.”
The current Hebrew Text reads Πό (eretz), the earth, but this is
manifestly a scribal error for ἤἴό (aritz), the oppressor. The Aleph (ὢ
being similar in sound with Ayin (A) was easily exchanged by
transcribers. And the Parallelism shows beyond doubt that this is the
case here.* [Note: This is from the ms. notes for the second edition of
Dr. Ginsburg’s Hebrew Bible.]

Isa. 50:1.-
а “Where is the bill of your mother’s divorcement, whom | have
put away?
bor which of my creditors is it to whom | have sold you?
Ь Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves,

а — And for your transgressions is your mother put away.”

Isa. 51:8-9.-

а “For my thoughts are not your thoughts,
Ь Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord,
Ь — For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so aremy

ways higher than your ways,

а and my thoughts than your thoughts.”

Here the whole paragraph is introverted. In a and a we have
“thoughts,” in b and b we have “ways.” But the pronouns in a and a
are alternate as to the “thoughts”:-

ο ΜΥ thoughts.

4 Your thoughts.
ο ΜΥ thoughts.
а Your thoughts.
While they are introverted in b and b as to the “ways”:-
е Your ways.
f My ways.
# Myways.
е Your ways.
Further we may note that a and b are negative; and b and a are
positive.
Isa. 60:1-3.-
а “Arise,
Ь Shine; for thy light is come,
с — апа the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.
@ — For behold darkness shall cover the earth,
@ and gross darkness the people:
ο but the Lord shall arise upon thee and His glory shall
be seen upon thee.
Ь And the Gentiles shall come to thy light,
а and kings to the brightness of thy rising.”
All these structures may be described, as well as set forth in full.
Thus:-
а The rising of Israel. (“Rising up.”)
Ь The Light received.
ο The glory of the Lord.
@ The darkness of the earth.
а The darkness of the peoples.
с The glory of the Lord.
Ь — The Light reflected.
а -The rising of Israel. (Dawning: “Thy sunrise.”)
Dan. 5:19.-
а Severity (“Whom he would he slew’).
Ь Favour (“and whom he would he kept alive”).
Ь — Favour (“and whom he would he set up”).
а Severity (“and whom he would he put down’).
Mat. 6:24.-
а “ΝΟ man can serve two masters:
Ь — Еог either he will hate the one
ο and love the other:
ο. ο/ else he will hold to the one
Ь — ап{ despise the other.
а Ye cannot serve God and mammon.”
Mat. 7:6.-
а “Give not that which is holy unto the dogs,

Ь neither cast ye your pearls before swine,
Ь lest they trample them under their feet,

а and turn again and rend you.”

Here, the introversion shows that it is the swine who tread the
pearls under foot, and the dogs which rend.

Rom. 11:21-23.-
а “If God spared not the natural branches,
b take heed lest He also spare not thee.
с Behold therefore the goodness
@ — ап{ severity of God:
@ onthem which fell, severity;
с but toward thee, goodness, ...
Ь — otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.

a_ And they also (the natural branches), if they abide not still in

unbelief, shall be graffed in.”

This passage occurs in the Dispensational part of the Epistle to the
Romans (9-11). See under Correspondence. Hence, it relates to Jew
and Gentile as such; and consequently it is not to be interpreted of the
Church, the standing of which is so clearly set forth in chapter 8. So
that the statement in line Ь can have no reference to those who are in
Christ, for whom there is no condemnation and no separation.
1Co. 1:24-25.-
а Power. “Christ the power of God.”
Ь Wisdom. “And the wisdom of God.”
Ь Wisdom. “Because the foolishness of God is wiser than
men.”
а Power. “And the weakness of God is stronger than men.”
2Co. 1:3.-
а Deity. “Blessed be God.”
Ь Paternity. “Even the Father.”
Ь — Paternity. “The Father of mercies.”
а Deity. “And the God of all comfort.”
2Co. 8:14.-
а — Equality. “By an equality.”
Ь Liberality. “That now ... at this time your abundance may
be a supply for their want.”
b Liberality. “That their abundance also may be a supply for
your want.
а Equality. “That there may be ... equality.”
Gal. 2:7-8.-
a Paul's commission. “When they saw that the Gospel of the
uncircumcision was committed unto me.”
b__Peter’s. “As the Gospel of circumcision was unto Peter.”
b Peter’s. “For he that wrought effectually in Peter to the
apostleship of the circumcision.”
а Paul’s commission. “The same was mighty in me toward the
Gentiles.”
Correspondence
It was reserved for Thomas Boys to extend and develope the study of
Parallelism. What others before him had thought to be confined to
lines, or only to short passages, he discerned to be true also of whole
paragraphs; yea, of whole sections and even of books. He therefore
discarded the term Parallelism as being altogether inadequate when
used of paragraphs and subjects. He adopted the term
Correspondence as applying to and covering all the Phenomena
connected with the structure of the sacred text. In 1824 he gave the
world his Tactica Sacra, and in the following year he gave his Key to
the Book of Psalms, which opened out the whole subject, and gave
some examples from the Psalms. In 1890, Dr. Bullinger edited from
Mr. Boys’s Interleaved Hebrew Bible, and other of his papers,* [Note:
These were most kindly placed at his service by the Rev. Sydney
Thelwall (Vicar of Radford), in whose possession they are. See Mr.
Thelwall’s preface to the Key to Psalms.] a complete edition of the
whole 150 Psalms, which he called, “A Key to the Psalms,” thus
connecting it with the work published in 1825.

This law of Correspondence is seen in the Repetition of Subjects,
rather than of Lines, or Propositions.

These subjects may be repeated in three different ways, or rather
in two, for the third is only a combination of the other two. They may
be repeated alternately; or they may be introverted, when it is called
Chiasmus (and sometimes Epanodos); or these two may be combined
in innumerable ways.

Each of the subjects occupies a separate paragraph, and these we
call members. These members may be of any length; one may be
very short, the other quite long. A longer member may be again
divided up and expanded, as each member possesses its own
separate structure, and this again may be part of one still larger.

For the sake of convenience, we arbitrarily place letters against
each member for the purpose of distinguishing it from the others and
of linking it to its corresponding member, as well as for easy reference.
Using Roman and Italic type we are enabled to mark the different
subjects which correspond, or are set in contrast, the one with the
other

Thus the subject of the member marked “A” (Roman type) will be
the same subject which is repeated in A (Italic type). The same with В
and В, a and а, b and b.

In whatever form we may have this figure, it is always of the
greatest possible use and importance. It enables us not merely to
perceive the symmetrical perfection of the passage, but to understand
its true sense; to see its scope and thus be guided to a sound
interpretation.
What may be obscure in one member may be clear in its
corresponding member.
The subject, which may not be mentioned in one member may be
named in the other. We are thus helped to a correct interpretation. For
example, in the structure of 1Pe. 3:18-22 it is not clear who or what
may be “the in-prison-spirits” of verse 19. But in the corresponding
member (verse 22) they are mentioned by name as “angels.” We thus
learn that the subject of the former member (verse 19) is the
disobedience of angels in the days of Noah (Gen. 6:1-22), while the
subject of the latter (verse 22) is the subjection of angels and
authorities and powers. Having thus got the scope of the passage, we
get the meaning of “spirits,” and remember how it is written, “He
maketh His angels spirits” (Psa. 104:4. Heb. 1:7). We at once connect
their sin in the days of Noah and their prison with Gen. 6:1. 2Pe. 2:4,
and Jud. 1:6. We thus have the clue to the true interpretation of this
passage, which if followed out will lead to a correct exegesis.* [Note:
See a pamphlet on The Spirits in Prison, by the same author and
publisher.]

For another example see Psa. 144:1-15. (page 33), where the
structure (an extended alternation) clearly shows that verses 12-15
consist of the “vanity” which the “strange children” speak, and the
“falsehood” which they utter. The Psalm ends with a solemn
conclusion (-15), which stands out apart from the structure by itself in
all its solemnity.
Psa. 144:1-15 -
А 1-4. Thanksgiving.
В 5-7. Prayer (“Bow thy heavens,” etc.).
6 8. Description of the strange children and their vain
words: “Whose mouth,” etc.
А 9, 10. Thanksgiving.
В Ί1-. Prayer (“Rid me”).
© — -11-15. Description of the strange children. After ror
“who” in verse 12 supply “say,” in italics,t [Note: See
under Ellipsis (page 33).] corresponding with “whose
mouth” in verse 8.

Then we have, in the concluding sentence, the true estimate of
happiness, and in what it consists, as opposed to the vain and false
estimate of the strange children:-

“Blessed the people whose God is Jehovah,” as is further set forth
in Psa. 4:6-7; Psa. 146:5.

The correspondence, here, corrects the common and popular
interpretation of this Psalm, and rescues it for the glory of God.

It is clear, therefore, from this, that the subject of Correspondence
cannot be too diligently studied, if we would discover some of the
wondrous perfections of the Word of God, or arrive at its proper
interpretation.
Correspondence may be thus arranged:-
|. ALTERNATE.
1. Simple: where there are only two series, each consisting
of two members.
2. Extended: where there are two series, but each consisting
of several members.
3. Repeated: where there are more than two series:
a. consisting of two members each.
b. consisting of more than two members each.
Il. INTROVERTED.
Ill. COMPLEX, or COMBINED, where there is a combination of
the other two.
|. Alternate Correspondence of Subjects

This is when the subjects of the alternate members correspond with
each other, either by way of similiarity or contrast.

We now give a few examples selected from all parts of Scripture.

1. Simple Alternation

We so call it when it consists of only four members: i.e., two series
with two members each. In this case the first member of the first
series corresponds with the first member of the second, while the
second member of the first series corresponds with the second
member of the second series.

In other words, it is alternate when, of the four members, the first
corresponds with the third, and the second with the fourth.
Jos. 9:22-25.-
А 22. The question of Joshua. “And Joshua called.”
В 23. The sentence of Joshua. “Now therefore” (Aa),
veattah).
Α 24. The reply of the Gibeonites. “And they answered.”
B 25. Submission to Joshua’s sentence. “Now, behold”
(Awa, veattah),
Psa. 19:1-14 -
А 1-4-. The heavens.
В -4-θ. The sun in them (AA, bahem, in them).
Α 7-10. The Scriptures.
В 11-14. Thy servant in them (Aa, bahem, in them).
Pro. 1:8-19.-
Α 8. Two-fold exhortation. “My son, hear ... forsake not.”
Β 9. Reason. “For they shall be,” etc.
А 10-15. Two-fold exhortation. “My son, if ... my son walk not.”
В 16-19. Reason. “For their feet,” etc.
Isa. 32:5-7.-
А The vile person shall be no more called liberal,
В Nor the churl said to be bountiful.

А For the vile person will speak villany and his heart will work
iniquity to practise hypocrisy, and to utter error against the
Lord, to make empty the soul of the hungry, and he will cause
the drink of the thirsty to fail.

В The instruments of the churl are evil; he deviseth wicked
devices to destroy the poor with lying words, even when
the needy speaketh right.”

Here, in A, and A, we have the vile person; while in B and B we

have the churl. A and B are negative; and A and B are positive.
Jer. 17:5-8.-

A 5. Cursed is the man (aafr, gever)* [Note: Gever is vir, a
strong man.] that trusteth in man (fai, adam)t [Note: Adam is
homo, a created man, and is thus put in contrast with Jehovah
in A. and maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth
from the Lord.

В 6. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not
see when good cometh, but shall inhabit the parched
places in the wilderness, in a salt land and not inhabited.

А 7. Blessed is the man (aafr, gever) that trusteth in the Lord,
and whose hope the Lord is.

В 8. For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that
spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when
heat cometh, but her leaf shall be green; and shall not be
careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from
yielding fruit.

Eze. 36:26-27.-

А “Anew heart also will | give you,

В And anew spirit will | put within you:

А And | will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and |

will give you an heart of flesh.

В And Iwill put my Spirit within you.

Here, in this prophecy concerning Israel in the day of their coming
glory, there are four members and two subjects. In the first and third it
is the “heart,” while in the second and fourth it is the “spirit.”

These words cannot be applied to the Christian now, inasmuch as
the old nature is not taken away, but a new nature is imparted. This is
the teaching of Rom. 1:16-32; Rom. 2:1-29; Rom. 3:1-31; Rom.
4:1-25; Rom. 5:1-21; Rom. 6:1-23; Rom. 7:1-25; Rom. 8:1-39, where
in 1:16-5:11, sins are first dealt with, as the fruit of the old nature, and
then, from 5:12-8:39, sin is dealt with, as the tree which produces the
fruit: and we are taught that, though the evil fruits are still produced,
God reckons the tree itself as dead. So, though sin itself no longer
reigns, yet sins are still committed by the old nature; but the saved
sinner is to reckon that old nature, {6., himself, as having died with
Christ, and he has now a new nature.

The old nature is not taken away, as it will be in the case of Israel
in that day: so the believer has in himself one nature that cannot but
sin, and another that cannot sin (19η. 3:9; 1Jn. 5:18).

The old nature can never be improved, and the new nature needs
no improvement.
Until the believer recognises this truth he can never know peace

with God.
Heb. 1:1-14; Heb. 2:1-18 -

Α 1:1, 2-. God speaking.

В -2-14. The Son of God: “better than the angels.”

А 2:1-4. God speaking.

В 5-18. The Son of Man: “lower than the angels.”

Here the two subjects are arranged alternately. And note that B is
in a parenthesis with respect to A and A; while A is in a parenthesis
with respect to B and B. In other words, A and A read on continuously,
without reference to B, while B and B likewise read on without
reference to A, which is thus practically in a parenthesis.

Hence the word “therefore,” 2:1, is not consequent on 1:14, but on
1:2-. And the “for” in 2:5 is consequent, not on 2:4, but on 1:14. The
respective members therefore read on

Thus: (1:1) “God, who at sundry times and in divers manners
spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last
days spoken unto us by his Son ... (ii. i.) therefore we ought to give
the more earnest heed to the the things which we have heard, etc.”
And: (1:14) “Are they not all ministering (worshipping) spirits, sent
forth to minister for (to serve) them who shall be heirs of salvation?...
(2:5) for unto the angels hath he not put into subjection the world to
come, etc.”

2. Extended Alternation
This is when there are still only two series, but each series consists of
more than two members.

And these are so arranged that the first of the one series
corresponds with the first of the other; and likewise the second of the
former corresponds with the second in the latter.

This has been called by some Direct Chiasmus, reserving the term
“Indirect Chiasmus” for what we have called  Introverted
Correspondence, or Chiasmus proper.

Bengel calls this “Direct Chiasmus”: but this is contrary to the very
name of the figure: viz., the letter Chi (X.), which he says, is, as it
were, the type or mould according to which the sentence or words is
or are arranged.

We prefer to consider it merely as Alternate Correspondence in an
extended form, reserving the term Chiasmus for Introverted
Correspondence.
Psa. 66:1-20 -
A 1,2. Exhortation to praise.
В 3. Address. 6ος” works in the world.
С 4. Address. Promise for the world.
Ю 5-7. Invitation: “Come and see.”
А 8,9. Exhortation to praise.
В 10-12. Address. God’s dealings with His People.
C 13-15. Address. Promise for himself.
D 16-20. Invitation: “Come and hear.”
Psa. 72:1-20 -
А 2-4. Messiah’s goodness to the poor.
В 5-10. Other attributes.
C 11. General adoration.
Α 12-14. Messiah’s goodness to the poor.
В — 15-17-. Other attributes.
© -17. General adoration.
The two members В and В form together a wonderful introverted
Correspondence.* [Note: See The Key to the Psalms. Edited by the
same author, and published by Eyre & Spottiswood.]
Psa. 132:1-18 -This Psalm affords a beautiful example of an extended
Alternation of subjects. We cannot, here, print the whole Psalm in full,
but give the following key to it:-
Α 1, 2. David swears to Jehovah.
В 3-5. What David sware.
С 6, 7. Search for and discovery of the dwelling-place.
D8. Prayer to enter into rest.
Е 9-. Prayer for priests.
Е  -9. Prayer for saints.
G 10. Prayer for Messiah.
А 11-. Jehovah swears to David.
В -11, 12. What Jehovah sware.
©С 19. Designation of the dwelling-place.
р 14, 15. Answer to prayer in О.
Е 16-. Answer to prayer in Е.
Е -16. Answer to prayer in Е.
© 17,18. Answer to prayer in С.
Act. 7:1-53.-
Α 2. Mesopotamia.
B 3-8. Abraham.
6 9-19. Joseph.
D 20-38. Moses.
E 39-43. Resistance.
А 44. The wilderness.
В 45-. Joshua.
С -45, 46. David.
р 47-50. Solomon.
Е 51-53. Resistance.
Rom. 2:17-20.-
А ‘Restest in the law,
В — апа makest thy boast of God,
©С — апа knowest His will,
D and approvest the things that are more excellent
Е being instructed out of the law;
Α and art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind,
В a light of them which are in darkness,
Can instructor of the foolish,
D_ateacher of babes,
Е which hast the form of knowledge and of the
truth of the law.”
In the first series, we have what the Jew considers as to himself. In
the second series, how he uses it in relation to others.
1Th. 1:2-10; 1Th. 2:13-16.-
А 1:2-4. The thanksgiving of Paul and his brethren.
В 5. Reason: Reception of the Gospel in the power of God.
6 6-9. The effect of the Gospel thus received.
р 10-. Believing. Thessalonians “wait” for God’s Son.
Е _ -10. Deliverance from the wrath to come.
А 2:13-. The thanksgiving of Paul and his brethren.
В -13. Reason: Reception of the Gospel in the power of God.
C 14. The effect of the Gospel thus received.
D 15, 16-. Unbelieving Jews “killed” God’s Son.
Е -Ί6. Delivered to the wrath to come.
1Th. 4:13-18; 1Th. 5:1-11.-

А 4:13. Instruction necessary as to “them which are asleep”
(κεκοιµηµένων." [Note: κοιµάομαι, to fall asleep, involuntarily:
hence used (in nearly every place) of death, but only of saints.
Mat. 27:52; Mat. 28:13. Luk. 22:45. Joh. 11:11-12. Act. 7:60;
Act. 12:6; Act. 13:36. 1Co. 7:39; 1Co. 11:30; 1Co. 15:6; 1Co.
15:18; 1Co. 15:20; 1Co. 15:51. 1Th. 4:13-15. 2Pe. 3:4.] The
Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] reads κοιµωµενων,
are falling asleep).

В — 14. First reason (γάρ): For, those who have fallen asleep
(κοιµηθέντας) God (by Jesus) will bring again from the

dead.

6 15. Second reason (γάρ): For, those who “are alive and
remain” (οἱ ζῶντες οἱ περιλειτόμενοι) shall not precede
them.

р 16, 17. Third reason (ὅτι): Because both will be
caught up together (ἅμα) at the Descent of the Lord
into the air.

Е 18. Encouragement: “Wherefore comfort one
another with these words.”

A 5:1. Instruction not necessary as to “the times and the
seasons” of this Resurrection and Ascension, which will take
place before the Day of the Lord.

В 2-6. First reason (yap): For they already knew that the
destruction of the wicked will mark the coming of the Day of
the Lord. Contrast (verses 4, 5) and Exhortation (verse 6):
“Therefore let us not sleep (καθεύδωµεν)Τ [Note:
éaéauaul, to go to sleep, voluntarily: hence not used of
death, but either of taking rest in sleep, or of the opposite
of watchfulness. Mat. 8:24; Mat. 9:24; Mat. 13:25; Mat.
25:5; Mat. 26:40; Mat. 26:43; Mat. 26:45. Mar. 4:27; Mar.
4:38; Mar. 5:39; Mar. 13:36; Mar. 14:37; Mar. 14:37; Mar.
14:40-41. Luk. 8:52; Luk. 22:46. Eph. 5:14. 1Th. 5:6-7;
1Th. 5:7; 1Th. 5:10.] but “let us watch” (ypnyopWpev).£
[Note: a¢eisu is translated “wake” only in verse 10, above.
Elsewhere it is always “watch,” “be watchful,” or “be
vigilant.”

Thus the marked use of zlégUlgjé in the first series, and of
éJéeyu in the second series teaches us that the hope of
Resurrection and Ascension before the Day of the Lord is
for all who are Christ's, whether they are dead or alive;
whether they are watchful or unwatchful.] (See note on
page 372).

σ 7, 8. Second reason (γάρ): “For they that sleep
(καθεύδοντες) sleep (καθεύδουσι) т the night.”
Contrast and Exhortation (verse 8).
Ю 9, 10. Third reason (ὅτι: Because God hath not
appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation (viz.,
that of the body in Resurrection) through our Lord
Jesus Christ, that whether ме watch
(venyop@pev)$ [Note: сга is translated “wake”
only in verse 10, above. Elsewhere it is always
“watch,” “be watchful,” or “be vigilant.”

Thus the marked use of éié-ibé in the first series, and
of éJéo in the second series teaches us that the
hope of Resurrection and Ascension before the Day
of the Lord is for all who are Christ's, whether they
are dead or alive; whether they are watchful or
unwatchful.] or sleep (καθεύδωµεν), we should
together (ἄμα) live with Him (as in D, above).

Ε 11. Encouragement: “Wherefore comfort
yourselves together,” etc.
2Ti. 3:16; 2Ti. 4:2.-There is a beautiful extended alternation between
the subjects of these two verses. See pages 146 and 148.
The Word of God is God-breathed and profitable for
А “doctrine,
В for reproof (or conviction),
©С for correction,
D for instruction.”
Therefore.
А “Preach the word,
В τβρΓονθ (or convict),
6 rebuke,
Р exhort,” etc.
3. Repeated Alternation
Alternate correspondence is repeated when there are more than two
series.
(a) Two members in each series
In this case the first member of the first series corresponds with the
first member of the second, third, fourth series, etc.; while the second
member of the first series corresponds with the second member of the
other series. These we have indicated as А1, Α2, A3 and B1, Β2,
B3 respectively, A corresponding with A2, A3, etc.: and B1 with B2,
B3, etc.
Psa. 26:1-12.-
А1 1-. Prayer.
В1 -1. Profession.

А2 2. Prayer.
B2 3-8. Profession.

A3 9, 10. Prayer.
B3 11-. Profession.

A4 -11. Prayer.
Β4 12. Profession.

Psa. 80:1-19.-

A1 1-3. Prayer (People).
B1 4-6. Representation (People).

Α2 7. Prayer (People).
B2 8-13. Representation (Vine).

A3 14, 15. Prayer (Vine and Vineyard).
B3 16. Representation (Vine and People).

A4 17-19. Prayer (People)

Psa. 145:1-21.-

А1 1, 2. Praise promised; from me (to Jehovah).
B1 3. Praise offered.

A2 4-7. Praise promised; from others and me (to Jehovah for His
works).
B2 8, 9. Praise offered.

A3 10-12. Praise promised; from others and works (to Jehovah for
His kingdom).
B3 13-20. Praise offered.

Α4 21. Praise promised; from me and others.

Here, in “David’s Psalm of Praise” we have seven members, with
two subjects in an extended alternation.

(b) More than two members in each series
This is a combination of Extended with Repeated Correspondence.

In this case, the first members of each series correspond with
each other; while the second member corresponds with the second,
the third with the third, etc.

Psa. 24:1-10.-Here, we have an alternation of three members
repeated in three series:

A1 1, 2. Right to the earth.

B1 3. Questions.
C1 4-6. Answer.
Α2 7. Right to heaven.
B2 8-. Question.
C2 -8. Answer.
A3 9. Right to heaven.
B3 10-. Question.
C3 -10. Answer.
Psa. 147:1-20.-
A1 1-3. Praise, and reason. (Kindness to Israel).
В1 4, 5. General operations. (Kingdom of nature).
C1 6. Contrast. (What the Lord does).
А2 7. Praise.
B2 8, 9. General operations. (Kingdom of nature).
©2 10, 11. Contrast. (What the Lord delights in).
A3 12-14. Praise, and reason. (Kindness to Israel).
B3 15-18. General operations. (Kingdom of nature).
C3 19, 20-. Contrast. (What the Lord has shown).
Α4 -20. Praise.
Il. Introverted Correspondence
This is where there are two series, and the first of the one series of
members corresponds with the /ast of the second; the second of the
first corresponds with the penultimate (or the last but one) of the
second: and the third of the first corresponds with the antepenultimate
of the second. That is to say, if there are six members, the first
corresponds with the sixth, the second with the fifth, and the third with
the fourth. And so on.

The Greeks called it CHIASMOS or CHIASTON from its likeness in
form to the letter Chi (X.). For the same reason the Latins called it
CHIASMUS, as well as DECUSSATA ORATIO from decusso, to divide
cross-wise (i.e., in the shape of an X). The Greeks called it also
ALLELOUCHIA (from ἀλλήλους (alleelous), together and ἔχειν
(echein), to have or hold, a holding or hanging together.

This is by far the most stately and dignified presentation of a
subject; and is always used in the most solemn and important portions
of the Scriptures.

Bengel observes with regard to this form of the Figure, that “its
employment is never without some use: viz., in perceiving the
ornament and in observing the force of the language; in understanding
the true and full sense; in making clear the sound Interpretation; in
demonstrating the true and neat analysis of the sacred text.”* [Note:
See The Structure of the Books of the Bible, by the same author and
publisher.]
Gen. 43:3-5.-
А Judah’s words: “The man did solemnly protest unto us, etc.”
В Jacob's act: “If thou wilt send.”
В Jacob's act: “But if thou wilt not send him.”
А Joseph’s words: “For the man said unto us, etc.”
In A and A, we have Joseph’s words; and in B and B, Jacob’s
action.
Lev. 14:51-52.-
А “And he shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the
scarlet,
Band the living bird,
С — апа dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the
running water,
О and sprinkle the house seven times:
D And he shall cleanse the house
С with the blood of the bird, and with the running
water,
В — апа with the living bird,
А and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and with the
scarlet.”
Note also the figure of Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see] )
emphasizing each particular item in this ordinance.
Deu. 32:1-43 (the Song of Moses).-
А 1-6. Call to hear; and the reason. The publishing of Jehovah’s
Name, His perfect work and righteous ways.
В 7-14. The goodness and bounty of Jehovah to Israel.
(Period of the Pentateuch).
C 15-19. Israel’s evil return for the good. Their pride;
forsaking of God: despising the Rock of their salvation.

Moving Him to anger. (Period of past history).

D 20. Divine reflections on the period while Israel is
“Lo-ammi.”* [Note: Hebrew: not my people.] God’s
hiding from them (Hosea).

Е 21. Jehovah's provocation of Israel. (Period of
Acts and present dispensation).

Е 22-25. Jehovah's threatening of judgment. (The
great tribulation).

р 26-33. Divine reflections оп the period while Israel
is “Lo-ammi.”* [Note: Hebrew: not my people.]
Their scattering from God (Hosea).
©С 394-3δ. Israel’s evil return for Jehovah’s goodness.
Their helpless condition moving Him to pity. He not
forsaking them. Their rock useless. (Period of present
history).
В 99-42. The vengeance of Jehovah. (The period of the
Apocalypse).
A 43. Call to rejoice; and the reason. The publishing of
Jehovah's kingdom. Vengeance оп Israel’s enemies. Mercy on
His land and His people. (Fulfilment of the Prophets).
Psa. 23:1-6 is a simple introversion, which is marked by the use of the
persons.
Α 1-3. First and third persons: “I” and “He.”
В 4. First and second: “I” and “Thou.”
В 5. First and second: “I” and “Thou.”
Α 6. First and third: “I” and His.
Psa. 103:1-22 is a beautiful example of a large introversion of ten
members:-
А 1-5. Exhortation to bless.
В 6, 7. Gracious goodness. (Kingdom of Grace).
6 8. Merciful goodness.
D 9. Sparing goodness.
E 10. Pardoning goodness.
E 11-13. Pardoning goodness
р 14-16. Sparing goodness.
©С 17, 18. Merciful goodness.
В 19. Glorious goodness. (Kingdom of Glory).
А 20-22. Exhortation to bless.
The Visions of Zechariah.-
А 1:1-17. False peace under the kingdom of the Gentiles.
В 1:18-21. Providential workings to break up the empires of
Dan. 2:1-49, and restore Judah, Israel and Jerusalem.
ο 2:1-13. Deliverance of the true Jerusalem out of
Babylon.
D 3:1-10. Priesthood and Royalty remodelled.
Jerusalem changed before God after the pattern of
Messiah.
D 4:1-14. Royalty and Priesthood remodelled.
Jerusalem changed before men after the pattern of
Messiah.
©С 5:1-11. The evil of the false Jerusalem sent into
Babylon.
В 6:1-8. Providential workings to break up the kingdoms of
Dan. 7:1-28, and restore Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.
А 6:9-15. True peace under the kingdom of Messiah.
Mat. 3:10-12.-

А “And now also the ax is laid unto the root of the trees:
therefore every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn
down, and cast into the fire.

B_|indeed baptize you with water unto repentance:
©С but he that cometh after me is mightier than I,
С whose shoes | am not worthy to bear:
В He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire.

‚А Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor,

and gather His wheat into the garner; but He will burn up the
chaff with unquenchable fire.”
Mar. 5:2-6.-
А “And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there
met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit,
В who had his dwelling among the tombs;
С — апа πο man could bind him ... no, not with chains:
Ώ because that he had been often bound with fetters
Е апа chains,
Е — апа the chains had been plucked asunder by
him,
Р and the fetters broken in pieces:
С neither could any man tame him.
В And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in
the tombs crying and cutting himself with stones.
А But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped Him.”
Joh. 5:8-11.-
А “Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.
В And immediately the man was made whole,
©С And took his bed and walked;
Ю Andon the same day was the sabbath.
Р The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It
is the sabbath day.
С — И5 not lawful for thee to carry thy bed.
В He answered them, He that made me whole,

Α The same said unto me, Take up thy bed and walk.”

Here in A and A we have the words of Christ; in B and B the man
made whole; in C and C the bed he carried; and in D and D the
Sabbath.

Joh. 5:21-29.-We have a combined series of introverted and alternate
correspondence in these verses:-

Α 21. Concerning quickening and resurrection.

В 22, 23. Concerning judgment.
В 24. Concerning judgment.

Α 25-29. Concerning quickening and resurrection.

The last member A is alternate, and may be thus extended:-

А ο 25, 26. Concerning life and resurrection.

@а 27. Concerning judgment.
ο. 28, 29-. Concerning resurrection.
а -29. Concerning judgment.
These complex structures are not confined to Psalms or selected
passages, but pervade the whole Bible, affecting the order of the
books themselves, and the separate structure of each.

Gal. 2:16.-
А “Knowing that a man is not justified

В — Бу the works of the law,
©С but by the faith of Jesus Christ,
С even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might

be justified by the faith of Christ,

В — апа not by the works of the law: for by the works of the
law

Α shall no flesh be justified.”

The Epistle to Philemon.-
А 1-3. Epistolary
а 1,2. Names of those with Philemon.
Ь 3. Benediction.
B 4-7. Prayers of St. Paul for Philemon. Philemon’s
hospitality.
6 8. Authority.
р 9, 10-. Supplication.
Е -10. Onesimus, a convert of St. Paul's.
Е 11, 12-. Wrong done by Onesimus. Amends
made by St. Paul.
© -12. To receive Onesimus the same as
receiving Paul.
H 13, 14. Paul and Philemon.
| 15. Onesimus.
1 16-. Onesimus.
Н -16. Paul and Philemon.
© 17. To receive Onesimus the same as
receiving Paul.
Е 18, 19-. Wrong done by Onesimus. Amends
made by St. Paul.
Е -Ί9. Philemon a convert of St. Paul’s.
D 20. Supplication.
С 21. Authority.
В 22. Philemon’s hospitality. Prayers of Philemon for Paul.
А 23-25. Epistolary.
а 23,24. Names of those with Paul.
Ь 25. Benediction.
It will be observed that the first and last members are alternate.
Ill. Complex Correspondence
This is where the members of a structure are arranged both in
alternation (simple or extended) and in introversion, combined
together in various ways, giving the greatest possible variety and
beauty to the presentation.

Not only is this complex arrangement Of a passage complete in
itself; but very often there is a double arrangement, the one within the
other, and consistent with it, though differing from it.

And further, the longer members of any particular structure
generally contain and have their own special arrangement, and may
be severally expanded.

In some of the following examples, we have given first the general
structure of a whole book or passage and then the expansion of some
of the larger members of which it is composed.

The Ten Commandments as a whole, as well as separately, are
beautiful examples of complex structure. Take the fourth as a
specimen (Exo. 20:8-11):-

Α 8. The Sabbath-day to be kept in remembrance by man.

В а 9. The six days for man’s work.
b 10. The Seventh day for man’s rest.
В а 11-. The six days for Jehovah’s work.
Ь -11-. The seventh day for Jehovah’s rest.

Α -11. The Sabbath-day blessed and hallowed by Jehovah.“

Here, it will be noted that the first half (A and B) is concerning
man’s side and duty, and the latter half (A and B) is concerning God's
side.

Psa. 84:1-12 -
А a_ 1-4. Blessedness of the dwellers.
Ь 5-7. Blessedness of the approachers.
В 8. Prayer.
В 9. Prayer.

A а 10. Blessedness of the dwellers. (“For.”)

Ь 11, 12. Blessedness of the approachers. (“For.”)

This Psalm is a simple introversion of four members, but the first
member, “a,” while it thus forms part of a larger member is itself
constructed as an extended introversion, which helps to the
understanding of verses 1-4.

а ο 1. “Thy tabernacles.”

@ 2. Desire for the courts of the Lord.
е — 3-. As the sparrow.
е — -3-. As the swallow.
@ -3. Desire for the altars of the Lord.
c 4. “Thy house.”
The two members d and d read on connectedly thus: “My soul
longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord: my heart and my
flesh crieth out for the living God ... even thine altars, O Lord of hosts,
my King and my God.”

Thus we are prevented from supposing that birds could build nests

in the altar of burnt offerings, on which fires were always burning, and
which was overlaid with brass; or in the altar of incense, which was
within the Holy Place, and overlaid with gold! (see page 96).
Psa. 49:1-20. is perhaps one of the most striking examples of
Complex Correspondence which the Scriptures afford. The Psalm, as
a whole, is alternate, with a Thema, or general subject. The first and
third members are arranged as an introversion; while in each of the
four members of which it is composed, a couplet is answered by a
quatrain, and a quatrain by a couplet.

The Thema, or Subject, anticipates the double form of the Psalm
itself. It is in two quatrains: (1) All people to hear (2) | will speak. The
first two lines of each quatrain are broken up and arranged alternately,
while the second two lines of each quatrain are introverted:

(1) All People to hear.
$  1-. “Hear this
# — -1-. All ye people,
$ -1-. Give ear,
@{ -1. All ye inhabitants of the world.
и — 2-. Low
м — -2-. and high.
у -2-. rich
и — -2. and poor.”
(2) | will speak.
м — 3-. “My mouth shall speak
x -ᾱ- of wisdom,
w_ -3-. and the meditation of my heart shall be
х -3. of understanding.
у — 4-. | will incline mine ear
# -4-. to a parable;
# -4-. | will open my dark saying
у -4. upon the harp.”
Then comes the Psalm proper:
The Psalm itself.
A а 5. Why fear? (couplet).
b 6-9. No redemption for the worldly (quatrain,
alternate).
ο — 10-. Death (couplet).
4 -10, 11. Worldly wisdom (quatrain, introverted).
В — 12. Man compared to beasts (couplet).
A а — 13. Worldly wisdom (couplet).
ο. 14. Death (quatrain, introverted).
b — 15. Redemption for me (couplet).
а 16-19. Fear not (quatrain, alternate).
В 20. Man compared to beasts (couplet).

Here note that, as in other cases, the corresponding members
(which are marked by the same letters) may be read on, the one being
explanatory of the other: the question in “a” (“Why fear?”) being
answered in a (“Fear not, etc.”)

Psa. 105:1-45. affords another beautiful example, but we can give
only the key to it.

Α 1-7. Exhortation to praise the Lord (second person, plural).

В 8-12. Basis of praise, God’s covenant with Abraham, in
promise.
С а 13. The journeyings of the Patriarchs.
Ь — 14, 15. Their favour and protection.
ο 16. Their affliction.
@ 17-22. Mission of Joseph to deliver.
С a _ 23. The journeyings of the People.
Ь 24. Their favour and protection.
ο. 25. Their affliction.
d 26-41. Mission of Moses to deliver.
В 42-45-. Basis of praise. God’s covenant with Abraham, in
performance.
А -45. Exhortation to praise the Lord (second person, plural).
Here, the Psalm as a whole is an introversion, while the two
central members are placed in strong correspondence by an extended
alternate arrangement; in which we have in the first (C) the history of
the Patriarchs (Genesis), and in the second (C) the history of the
Nation (Exodus).
Note also that while A and A are in the second person plural, all
the rest of the Psalm is in the third person.
Note further that the two longer members B and B are similarly
constructed, and the subjects repeated by extended alternation (as in
С and C), thus:-
В е 8-10. The Covenant remembered.
f 11. The Land promised.
9 — 12. The People described.
В е 42, 43. The Covenant remembered.
f 44. The Land inherited.
9 45. The People described.
In like manner the two longer members d and d may be shown to
have the same wonderful structure.
Я ἩἹ 17. The sending of the deliverer.
i 18, 19. His trial by the word.
κ 20-22. The deliverance.
а ΠΠ 26. The sending of the deliverers.
i 27-36. Egypt's trial by the word (see verse 27, margin).
к 37-41. The deliverance.
Psa. 146:1-10 :.-This Psalm affords another beautiful example of the
combined correspondence. As a whole the Psalm is an Introversion;
while the inner members consist of an extended alternation:-
A 1, 2. Praise. Hallelujah.
В а — 3-. Wrong trust, in man.
Ь -3. Man powerless.
ο — 4. Man perishable.
В а 5. Right trust, in God.
Ь 6-9. God all-powerful,
с — 10-. God eternal.
А -10. Praise. Hallelujah.
Psa. 148:1-14.-
А 1-. Hallelujah.
В а -1. Praise from the heavens (second person).
Ь 2-4. Enumeration of heavenly things.
ο 5-. Injunction to praise (third person).
@ -5, 6. Inducements: (“for”).
В а 7-. Praise from the earth (second person).
Ь — -7-12. Enumeration of earthly things.
с — 13-. Injunction to praise (third person).
а -13, 14-. Inducements: (“for”).
А -14. Hallelujah.
Here, again, while the whole Psalm is introverted, the two centre
members are arranged as an extended alternation.
Mar. 3:21-35.-
A а 21-. His kindred. “His friends” (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.]
kinsmen).
Ь — -21-. Their interference. “Went out.”
ο  -21. Their disparagement of Him. “For they said,
etc.”
ва 22-. The Scribes: Their first charge, “He
hath.”
е -22, Their second charge, “He casteth
out.”
B e 23-27. His answer to the second
charge.
d 28-30. His denunciation of the first charge.
A а 31-. His kindred. “There came then his, etc.”
Ь — -31, 32. Their interference. “Sent, calling.”
ο 33-35. His disparagement of them.
From this beautiful complex structure, we learn that, as “d”
corresponds with “d,” the sin against the Holy Ghost is the saying that
Christ was possessed by a devil! And also, from the correspondence
of “b,” with “b” we learn that the interference of the mother and
brethren of Christ was because they said He was “beside Himself.” No
wonder then that their disparagement of Him (in “с”) is answered by
His disparagement of them (in “с”).

We give examples of the Seven Epistles addressed by the Holy
Spirit through St. Paul to the Churches: but for the fuller development
of them we must refer the reader to our larger work on this great and
important subject.* [Note: What is the Spirit saying to the Churches?
See a series of articles commenced in Things to Come, Sept., 1898.]

THE PAULINE EPISTLES TO THE SEVEN CHURCHES.

Epistle to the Romans.-

Introversion.
А 1:1-6. The Gospel. Always revealed: never hidden.
В 7-15. Epistolary.
С а 1:16-8:39. Doctrinal.
Ь 9-11. Dispensational.
С а 12:1-15:7. Practical.
Ь — 8-13. Dispensational.
В 15:14-16:24. Epistolary.
А 16:25-27. The Mystery. Always hidden: never before revealed.
The Expansion of B and B (1:7-15, and 15:14-16:24).
Epistolary.
В ο 1:7. Salutation.
Я — 8,9. Prayer, etc. (his for them).
е 10-13. His journey.
f = 14, 15. His ministry.
B # — 15:15-21. His ministry.
e 22-29. His journey.
d 30-33. Prayer, etc. (theirs for him).
с 16:1-24. Salutation.
The whole of this epistle is marvellously constructed, and the
construction is absolutely essential to its correct interpretation.

It is hardly the design of this work to go too deeply into these
structures; but the doctrinal portion (a |1:16-8:39) is too important to
be passed over.

It is divided into two parts. The first deals with the old nature, and
with the fruits of the old tree. The second deals with the tree itself, and
the conflict between the two natures in the believer.

C. Rom. 1:16-32; Rom. 2:1-29; Rom. 3:1-31; Rom. 4:1-25; Rom.

5:1-21; Rom. 6:1-23; Rom. 7:1-25; Rom. 8:1-39.
Doctrine.

It is of the greatest importance to note that the break occurs at the
end of chapter 5:11.

Up to that point the question dealt with is “sins.” From that point it
is “sin.” And, unless this great distinction be made the doctrine cannot
be understood. The two parts, then, stand, as follows:-

а Ὁ 1:16-5:11. SINS. The products of old nature. The fruits of

the old tree.
E 5:12-8:39. SIN. The old nature. The old tree itself
The First Division, D (1:16-5:11). SINS.
The old nature and its fruits.

О а 1:16, 17. The power of God unto salvation to every one
that believeth God’s Gospel revealing a righteousness from
God.

h 1:18. The wrath of God revealed against all
ungodliness and unrighteousness.

h 1:19-3:20. The wrath of God revealed against all
ungodliness and unrighteousness.

9 — 3:21-5:11. The power of God unto salvation to every one
that believeth God’s Gospel revealing a righteousness from
God.

The Second Division, E (5:12-8:39). SIN.

The old nature itself, and its conflict with the new nature.

E i 5:12-21. Condemnation to death through a single sin of
one man (τὸ παράπτωμα): but justification of life through a
single righteous act of one man (τὸ δικαίωμα).

К 6:1-7:6. We are not in sin, having died in Christ.
κ. 7:7-25. Sin is in us, though we are alive in Christ.
i 8:1-39. Condemnation of sin in the flesh, but now “ΝΟ
condemnation” to us who are alive unto God in Christ
Jesus and in whom is Christ.
The Expansion of b (Rom. ix-xi.).
Dispensational.
А 9:1-15. Paul’s sorrow regarding Israel’s failure.
В 1 6-13. God’s purpose regarded only a portion.
πι 14-29. God’s purpose regarded only a remnant.
с п1 9:30-33. Israel’s failure in spite of the
Prophets.
n2 10:1-13. Israel's failure in spite of the Law.
n3 14-21. Israel's failure in spite of the Gospel.
B πι 11:1-10. God’s purpose regarding the remnant
accomplished.
П 11-32. God 5 purpose will ultimately embrace the
whole.
&А 33-36. Paul’s joy regarding God’s purpose.
Expansion of a (Rom. 12:1-21; Rom. 13:1-14; Rom. 14:1-23; Rom.
15:1-7).
Practical.
a ο 12:1, 2. Personal and individual.
р 3-8. Ecclesiastical.
9 9-18. Social.
г 19-21. Civil.
г 13:1-7. Civil.
q_ 8-14. Social.
p 14:1-23. Ecclesiastical.
ο 15:1-7. Personal and individual.
The First Epistle to the Corinthians.-
А 1:1-9. Epistolary. Salutation. Introduction.
В а 10-4:16. Ministerial, ecclesiastical and corporal.
Ь ο 17. Mission of Timothy.
@а 18-21. Visit of Paul.
©С 5,6. Things reported to Paul.
C 7,8. Things enquired of by Paul.
В а 9-15. Ministerial, ecclesiastical and corporat.
b а — 16:1-9. Visit of Paul.
ο 10-18. Mission of Timothy.
А 19-24. Epistolary. Salutation. Conclusion.
The Second Epistle to the Corinthians.-
Extended Alternation.
А 1:1, 2. Salutation.
В а 3-11. Thanksgiving.
Ь 12. His ministry.
©С 1:13-2:13. Epistolary.
В а 14-17. Thanksgiving.
Ь 3-7:4. His ministry.
©С  5-13:10. Epistolary.
А 11-14. Salutations.
Expansion of C (1:13-2:13) and C (7:5-13:10).
Epistolary.
С Ю ο 13, 14. Present Epistle.
@ — 15-2:2. Visit.
9 15, 16. Purpose.
h — 17-2:2. Vindication.
Е е ἵ 2:3-11. Former Epistle.
К 12, 13-. No rest in spirit.
f — -13. Macedonia. Journey.
с Е е К — 7:5-7. No rest in flesh.
i 8-16. Former Epistle.
# 8, 9. Macedonia. Journey.
D а 10-13:1. Visit.
В 10:1-12:13. Vindication.
9 — 14-13:1. Purpose.
с 2-10. Present Epistle.
The Epistle to the Galatians.-
Complex. Repeated Alternation.
А 1:1-5. Epistolary and Salutation.
В1 а 6-2:14. Apostleship.
Ь — 15-4:11. Doctrine.
В2 а = 12-20. Apostleship.
Ь 21-6:10. Doctrine.
B3a 11-13. Apostleship.
В 14-15. Doctrine.
Α 16-18. Epistolary and Salutation.
The Epistle to the Ephesians.-
Introversion.
А 1:1, 2. Epistolary. Salutation.
В 1:3-3:21. Doctrinal.
В 4:1-6:22. Practical.
А 23, 24. Epistolary. Salutation.
The Expansion of В (1:3-3:21).
Doctrinal.
B a ο 1:3-14. The purpose of God in Himself (1:9)
concerning Christ Personal. “The Mystery of God.”
d 1:15-23. Prayer to “the God of our Lord Jesus
Christ,” as to “c.”
b 2. Ourselves the objects of these purposes and
prayers.
а ο 3:1-13 The purpose of God in Christ (3:11) concerning
Christ Mystical. “The Mystery of Christ (3:4).”
d 3:14-21. Prayer to “the Father of our Lord Jesus
Christ,” as to “c.”
The Expansion of “b” (chap. 2). Alternation.
Ourselves.
Ь е = 2:1-3. Past.
f 4-10. Present.
е 11, 12. Past.
# 13-22. Present.
Expansion of B (4:1-6:22). Alternation.
Practical.
В д 4:1-16. Their walk among themselves as worthy of their
calling being members of the One Body. (Ecclesiastical).
В — 4:17-5:21. Their walk among others. (Spiritual).
9 — 5:22-6:9. Their walk among themselves. (Domestic).
В — 6:10-20. Their walk among others. (Spiritual).
The Epistle to the Philippians.-
Introversion.
А 1:1, 2. Epistolary. Salutation.
В 3-26. Paul’s concern for the Philippians.
©С 27-2:18. The first example: Christ.
D 19-24. The second example: Timothy.
Р 25-30. The third example: Epaphroditus.
C 3-4:9. The fourth example: Paul.
В 10-20. The Philippians’ care of Paul.
А 21-23. Epistolary and salutation.
The Epistle to the Colossians.-
Introversion.
Α 1:1, 2. Epistolary, and Salutation.
В 3-8. Mutual reports and messages by Epaphras; our dear
fellow-servant and your faithful minister.
©С — 9-2:7. Paul’s prayer and concern for the Colossian
saints. We “pray for you”: and that concerning his
preaching of the Mystery.
D 2:8-23. Doctrine and Instruction consequent on
having died with Christ. Correctional.
р — 3:1-4:1. Doctrine and Instruction consequent on
being risen with Christ. Correctional.
©С  4:2-6. The Colossians’ prayer and concern for Paul:
“praying alway for us”: and that concerning his
preaching of the Mystery.

В 4:7-9. Mutual reports and messages by Tychicus and

Onesimus, “beloved brethren.”

Α 10-18. Epistolary and salutations.
All these may be severally expanded according to their respective

structures. We give three such expansions:-
The Expansion of C (1:9-2:7).
Paul’s prayer and concern for the Colossians.
С а1 1:9-11. Solicitude that they might be filled with wisdom
concerning Christ.

b1 12-22. The Mystery revealed. (The wisdom and fulness
of Christ).
а2 23-25. Solicitude that they might stand fast in “the faith.”
b2 26, 27. The Mystery declared.
a3 28-2:2-. Solicitude and conflict.
b3 -2, 3. The Mystery acknowledged.
a4 4-7. Solicitude that they might be established in “the faith.”
The Expansion of D (2:8-23). Extended Alternation.
Doctrine and Instruction consequent on having died with Christ.
Ю ο 8. Caution.
d 9, 10. Christ the Head, and His People complete in
Him.
е 11-15. Ordinances, therefore, done away in Christ.
ο 16-18. Caution.
а 19. Christ the Head, and His People nourished by Him.
e 20-23. Ordinances, therefore, done away in Christ.
The Expansion of D (3:1-4:1). Extended Alternation.
Doctrine and Instruction consequent on being risen with Christ.
Df 3:1-9. The rule of the old man over. Died and risen with
Christ.
9 — 10, 11. The new man put on.
h — 12-14. Effects seen in the exercise of love as the
bond of perfectness.
# — 15. The peace of God ruling our hearts. The peace of His
presence enjoyed by us as seated with Christ.
9 16. The word of Christ indwelling.
В 17-4:1. Effects manifested in the exercise of love
the bond of all domestic relations.
The First Epistle to the Thessalonians.-
Complex Introversion.
А 1:1. Epistolary (Introduction).
В а 1:2-3:10. Narration. Thanksgiving and appeal. In four
members (alternate).
Ь — 3:11-13. Prayer, in view of “the coming of our Lord
Jesus Christ.”
В а 4:1-5:22. Exhortation and Instruction. In four members
(introverted).
Ь — 5:23-25. Prayer, in view of “the coming of our Lord
Jesus Christ.”
A 5:26-28. Epistolary (Conclusion).* [Note: For the further
structure of all these various members see pages 370, 371.
Also The Structure of the Two Epistles to the Thessalonians by
the same author and publisher]
The Second Epistle to the Thessalonians.-
Complex Introversion.
А 1:1, 2. Epistolary (shorter).
В а 3-10. Thanksgiving (longer).
b 11, 12. Prayer (shorter).
ο 2:1-12. Admonition (longer, prophetic and
general).
В а 2:13-15. Thanksgiving (shorter).
Ь — 16-3:5. Prayer (longer).
с 6-15. Admonition (shorter, more immediate and
personal.

А 3:16-18. Epistolary (longer).

Here, note that most of these members may be expanded. Also
that, while they are alternated throughout, shorter and longer, yet
these are so arranged that the shorter prayer corresponds with the
longer prayer, and the longer thanksgiving with the shorter
thanksgiving, and so with the other members.* [Note: For the structure
of particular portions of these Epistles, and expansions of the various
members, see the series of articles commencing in Things to Come
for Sept., 1898.]

We add the structure of the two Epistles of St. Peter:-

The First Epistle of Peter.-t [Note: For the expansion of these
various members, see The Spirits in Prison, by the same author and
publisher.]

Complex Introversion.
А 1:1, 2. Epistolary.
B 1:3-12. Introduction. Thanksgiving; foreshadowing the
subject of the Epistle.
С а 1:13-2:10. Exhortations (General) in view of “The
End,” as to Hope in the Fiery Trial.
b 2:11-4:6. Exhortations (Particular) as to
Sufferings and Glory.
с а 4:7-19. Exhortations (General) in view of “The
End,” as to Joy in the Fiery Trial.
Ь — 5:1-9. Exhortations (Particular) as to Sufferings
and Glory.
В 5:10, 11. Conclusion. Prayer; embodying the object of the
Epistle.
А 5:12-14. Epistolary.
The Second Epistle of Peter.-
Complex Introversion.
A 1:1-4. Epistolary. Grace and knowledge to be increased.

Divine gift (3-). God and Saviour (-1).

В а 1:5-7. Exhortation (second person, plural imperative,
with participle preceding). Diligence. Positive, to acquire
every grace.

b 1:8, 9. Two reasons. ταῦτα γαρ yap. Ample
supply, ample fruit. Wilful ignorance and spiritual
darkness.

a 1:10-. Exhortation. “Wherefore ... brethren.” Aid:

Diligence, “sure.”

b 1-10, 11. Two reasons. ταῦτα yap οὕτω yap.
“These things.”

С ο 1:12-15. Peter.
Я # — 1:16-18. Apostles.
9 19-21. Prophets.
е 2:1-22. The wicked.
6 ο 3:1. Peter.
d 9 3:2-. Prophets.
f — -2. Apostles.
е 3:3-13. The wicked.

В Ἡ 3:14-16. Exhortation. “Wherefore (Aid) beloved.”

i Апд reason. “Seeing ... ye look, etc.”
h_ 3:17. Exhortation. “Therefore ... beloved.”
i And reason. “Seeing ... ye know ... etc.”
A 3:18. Epistolary. Grace and knowledge to be increased.
Traced to Divine glory. “Lord and Saviour.”

It will be noted that the Epistle as a whole is an introversion of six
members. While B and B are a simple alternation, and C and C an
extended alternation, with which another inner introversion is
combined.

08" р. ΙΙ. Affecting the Sense (Figures of Rhetoric)"
Il. AFFECTING THE SENSE
(FIGURES OF RHETORIC)
WE now pass from figures more closely affecting Grammar and
Syntax to those which relate to Rhetoric. Figures, which not merely
affect the meaning of words, but the use and application of words.

These are figures of repetition and addition of sense rather than of
words: and are used in reasoning.

Sometimes the same sense is repeated in other words.

Sometimes the words themselves are repeated, but always by way
of amplifying the sense for purposes of definition, emphasis, or
explanation.

We have endeavoured to embrace them all under six great
divisions, where the sense is added to by way of:

1. Repetition for Definition, REPETITIO.

2. Amplification, AMPLIFICATIO-

3. Description, DESCRIPTIO.

4. Conclusion, CONCLUSIO.

5. Parenthesis, INTERPOSITIO-

6. Reasoning, RATIOCINATIO:

1. Repetitio

Addition by way of Repetition for various reasons as follows:
Prosapodosis; or, Detailing
A Returning for Repetition and Explanation
Pros-a-pod’-o-sis, a giving back to, or return. It is from πρός (pros), to,
and ἁπόδοσις (apodosis), a giving back; (from ἁποδίδωμι
(apodidomi), to give back, return).

The figure is so called because after the mention of two or three
words or subjects together, there is a return to them again, and they
are repeated separately for purposes of definition or explanation.

The Latins called it REDITIO (from redire), which means the same
thing, a going or returning back; or REDDITIO (from reddire), a giving
back. They called it also SEJUGATIO, a disjunction or separation,
from sejungo, to unyoke (jugum, a yoke), or disjoin, because of the
separation of the words or subjects which takes place: first being
mentioned or yoked together, and then unyoked and mentioned
separately.

For the same reason they called it DISJUNCTIO, disjunction.

The Greeks used a similar descriptive word when they called the
figure DIEZEUGMENON (Di-e-zeug’-me-non), from zeugma, a yoke,
i.e., an unyoking, or disjunction.
Joh. 16:8-11.-“And when he is come, he will reprove (marg. [Note:
arg. Margin.] , convince) the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of
judgment:-
“Of sin, because they believe not on me;
“Of righteousness, because | go to my Father, and ye see me
no more;
“Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged.”

Here, after the mention of the three words together, “sin,”
“righteousness,” and “judgment,” the Lord returns to them again, and
repeats them separately, for the purpose of explaining and more
particularly defining them. Thus we learn that the mission and work of
the Holy Ghost with regard to the world was to bring it in guilty (for that
is the meaning of the word) concerning these three important facts.

(1) “Sin” is not, as man regards it, some mere yielding to the lusts
of the flesh, but a refusal to believe God’s Gospel concerning His Son,
the Lord Jesus Christ. That is sin in God’s sight.

(2) “Righteousness.” Seeing they rejected Christ, and would not
believe on Him, He was, in righteousness, removed from the earth,
and is returned to the Father, until He comes again in

(3) “Judgment.” For the prince of this world has been judged,
sentence has been passed upon him, and ere long it will be put into
execution.

Rom. 11:22.-“Behold therefore, the goodness and severity of God: on
them which fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue
in his goodness; otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.”

Here, the return to the two words is not direct, as in Joh. 16:8-11,
but in an Epanodos (q.v. [Note: Which see-] ).

а000 Goodness.
b25 Severity.
b= Severity.

a®20 Goodness.

The statement refers to the Gentiles as such (see verse 13, “I
speak to you, Gentiles”), and cannot refer to the Church of God; for, of
the members of Christ's Body it has been already stated and declared
in chapter 8, that there is no condemnation, and no separation.

To interpret Rom. 11:1-36 of the Church, and not of the Gentiles as
Gentiles is not only to miss the whole teaching conveyed by the
structure (see page 385) as to the separate Doctrinal and
Dispensational sections of the Epistle, but it is to make the grace of
God of no effect, and to destroy the standing of the Christian, and his
eternal preservation in Christ.

Php. 1:15-17.-“Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife;
and some also of good will:

The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to
add affliction to my bonds:

But the other of love, knowing that | am set for the defence of the
Gospel.”

Here, after having first stated the two classes, he returns to them
to explain his meaning further.
Epidiegesis; or, Re-Statement
A Repetition in order to restate in full
Ep -i-di’-e-ge’-sis, a repetition of the statement of a case or narration
of facts: from ἑτή (epi), upon, and διήγησις (dieegeesis), the statement
of a case (from διηγέοµαι, dieegeomai, to describe or narrate in
detail).

This is a kind of Prosapodosis: and it is so called when the
repetition is for the purpose not of explanation, but of kindling emotion,
provoking indignation, or evoking comparison.

Epexegesis; or, Fuller Explaining
A Repetition for the purpose of explaining more fully
Ερ-εχ΄-ε-σεε΄-δί5, a returning to explain. \t is from ἐπί (epi), upon, ἐξ
(ex), out, and ἡγεῖσθαι (heegeisthai), to lead or guide.

The figure is so called because the repetition is for purposes of
explanation.

It has several names. It is called EXEGESIS (ex’-e-gee’sis), an
explanation.

ECPHRASIS (ec’-phra-sis), from ἐκ (ek), out, and φράζω (phrazo),
to give to know, cause to understand, intimate, point out. Hence the
figure is called Ecphrasis, which means an explaining, recounting-
It is also called EPLCHREMA (epi-chree‘-ma), from ἐτή (epi),
upon, and χρῆμα (chreema), a furnishing, from χράοµα! (chra’-o-mai),
to furnish what is needful. The figure is thus called because upon what
has been said less clearly the needful information is added or
furnished.

This figure Epexegesis may be divided into three parts: (1) where
what is added is a working out and developing what has been
previously said (Exergasia); (2) where what has been said is dwelt
upon to deepen the impression (Epimone); and (3) where what is
added is by way of interpretation (Hermeneia).

For these three Figures see the following:

Exergasia: or, Working Out
A Repetition, so as to work out or illustrate what has already been said
Ex-er-ga’-si-a. Greek, ἐξεργασία, which means a working out (from ἐξ
(ex), out, and ἐργάζομαι (ergazomai), to work.
In this figure the same thought, idea, or subject is repeated in
other words, and thus worked out and developed. It, therefore,
resembles Synonymia; but differs from it in that not merely
synonymous words are repeated, but synonymous expressions or
sense.

It is sometimes called EPEXERGASIA, {6., the addition of the
preposition ἐπί (epi), upon, to the word exergasia and implies a
working out upon. Words of the same signification are repeated to
make plainer the previous statement: or to illustrate the sense of what
has been mentioned before.

The Latins called it EXPOLITIO. a polishing up; because by such
repetition the meaning is embellished as well as strengthened and not
merely explained or interpreted as in other repetitions.

This figure necessarily implies that the separate repetitions must
be placed in parallel lines.

It is of frequent occurrence, and therefore we can give only a few
examples.

Psa. 17:1.-
“Hear the right, O Lord,
Attend unto my cry,
Give ear unto my prayer.”
Psa. 18:1-2.-
“| will love thee О Lord, my strength.
The Lord is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer:
My God (ΕΙ), my strength, in whom | will trust;
My buckler, the horn of my salvation, and my high tower.”
Psa. 35:1-3.-

а10 “Plead my cause, О Lord, with them that strive with me;
Ρ15 Fight against them that fight against me.

82” Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help.
b22 Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them

that persecute me:
43: Say unto my soul, | am thy salvation.
632 4-8. Let them, etc.”

And so the Psalm goes on. In a1, a2, and a3, we have prayer for
himself (Defensive), and in b1, b2, and b3, prayer against his enemies
(Offensive). In each case the meaning is further developed.

Psa. 35:4.-

“Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my

soul:

Let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise

my hurt.

Let them be as the chaff before the wind:
And let the angel of the Lord chase them, etc.”
In verses 4-8 we have:
e204. Prayer against those who devise evil.
9229 5. The angel of the Lord.
а220 6. The angel of the Lord.
2307, 8. Prayer against those who devise evil.
Jon. 2:2 (3).-
а299 “I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the Lord,
Ρ”Γ3 and he heard me:
α Out of the belly of hell (Sheol) cried |,
b=0 and thou heardest my voice.”
Jon. 2:3 (4).-
ο For thou hadst cast me into the deep,
а290 jn the midst of the seas;
а223 and the floods compassed me about:
call thy billows and thy waves passed over me.”
Here, in a and a we have Jonah’s affliction: and in b and b
Jehovah's respect to him. In ο and с we have the deep as a whole,
and in d and а the waters which make it up.
Zec. 6:12-13.-
“Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying:
Behold, the man whose name is the BRANCH;
And he shall grow up out of His place,
And He shall build the temple of the Lord:
Even He shall build the temple of the Lord:
And He shall bear the glory,
And shall sit and rule upon His throne;
And He shall be a priest upon His throne:
And the counsel of peace shall be between them.”

Here, the figure is enhanced by Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which
see] ).

Epimone; or, Lingering
Repetition in order to dwell upon for the sake of Impressing

E-pim’-o-nee. Greek, ἑπιμονή, a staying on, or dwelling upon, from ἑτή
(epi), upon, and μένω (men?), to remain, or dwell. In Latin
COMMORATIO.
This figure is so called because the repetition is not of words, but
of sense, by way of dwelling upon the principal point of a subject, so
that it may be well understood, and remain with due weight upon the
mind of the hearer or reader.

Zec. 1:3-6 is referred to Epimone; because the solemn fact is dwelt
upon and emphasized that the people had brought all this trouble
upon themselves, because they had neglected to hear the words of
Jehovah.

Mat. 7:21-23.-Here, the one thought is dwelt upon by being expressed
in several different ways.

Mat. 12:31-32.-Here, the one truth in verse 31 is dwelt upon by a
further statement of it, in another form, in verse 32. It is clear from
verse 24 that the sin against the Holy Ghost was the attributing of the
Lord’s work to Beelzebub, or the Evil Spirit. See verse 28, and page
384.

Mat. 15:18-20.-Here, after the statement that “those things which
proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart; and they defile
the man,” the Lord goes on to impress the important fact by dwelling
upon it, and explaining that “out of the heart proceed evil thoughts,
etc. ...” and adding “these are the things that defile a man. And not to
eat with unwashed hands. He shows that it is “not that which goeth
into the mouth” (verse 11): these things do not defile a man.

Mar. 7:20-23.-The solemn fact of verse 20 as to what really defiles is
dwelt upon in the following verses, in order to impress its truth upon
the mind.
Joh. 21:15-17.-Peter’s threefold restoration is dwelt upon in these
verses, to assure him that his threefold denial had not cut him off; and
that though he failed, the prayer of his great Advocate was heard and
answered, so that his faith did not fail.

Col. 2:14-15.-Here the blessed effect of Christ's death is dwelt upon in
the enumeration of some of its triumphant results.

Hermeneia; or, Interpretation

Repetition for the Purpose of Interpreting what has been already said
Her-mee’-neia, ἑρμηνεία, interpretation, explanation. This figure is so-
called because, after a particular statement the explanation follows
immediately to make more clear what has been said less clearly.
The Latins consequently called it INTERPRETATIO, or
Interpretation.
Psa. 7:1-17, where verse 13 (14) explains verse 12 (13).
Psa. 77:19.-After saying
“Thy way is in the sea,
And thy path in the great waters,”
the interpretation is added:
“And thy footsteps are not known.”
Isa. 1:23.-After the words
“Thy silver is become dross,
Thy wine mixed with water,”
the interpretation is added:
“Thy princes are rebellious, etc.”
Isa. 34:6.-Here the statement about the sword of the Lord in the
former part of the verse is explained in the latter part.
Isa. 44:3.-
“| will pour water upon him that is thirsty,
And floods upon the dry ground.”

This is immediately explained to mean:
“| will pour my spirit upon thy seed,
And my blessing upon thine offspring.”
Isa. 51:1-23, where verse 2 explains verse 1.
Hos. 7:8-9.-Here verse 9 is the interpretation of verse 8.
Amo. 3:8.-Here we have first
“The lion hath roared,
Who will not fear?”
and then the interpretation:
“Adonai Jehovah hath spoken,
Who can but prophesy?”
Mat. 6:24 and Luk. 16:13.-Here the last clause interprets the first.
This is on account of, and is shown by the structure:
ΑΓΌ “No servant can serve two masters,
Boo a0 For either he will hate the one,
6299 and love the other;
(B00000000 555 or else he will hold to the one,
а200 and despise the other.
A™ Ye cannot serve God and Mammon.
Here A interprets A, showing that the two masters meant are God
and Mammon; while, in B and B, the two-fold reason is given in the
form of an Epanodos (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

Joh. 7:39 is added in order to interpret what had been said in said in
verse 38.

2Ti. 4:6.-“! am now ready to be offered” is explained by what follows:
“the time of my departure is at hand.”

All the passages which commence, “which being interpreted
means, etc.,” come under this figure Hermeneia-

Battologia; or, Vain Repetition
Bat-to-log’-i-a, βαττολογία, vain repetitions. These are repetitions, of
course, which are vain, meaningless, and senseless.

None of these is to be found in the word of God. Indeed, we are
exhorted not to use them as the heathen do, who think that by using
them in their prayers they shall be “heard for their much speaking.”
The verb in Mat. 6:7 is βαττολογήσητε (battologee -seete) use not vain
repetitions. The Holy Spirit therefore does not use them: so that we
have no examples to give for this figure which man has named and so
frequently uses.

Examples of man’s use of Battologia may easily be found, e.g.,
1К!. 18:26. Act. 19:34, etc. Also in the Prayer Book.

2. Amplificatio
By way of addition or amplification (Pleonastic figures)
Pleonasm; or, Redundancy
When more Words are used than the Grammar requires

Ple’-o-nasm. Greek, πλεονασμµός (pleonasmos): from πλέονάζειν
(pleonazein), to be more than enough. This is from πλέος (pleon), or
πλεῖον (pleion), more, and πλέος (pleos), full. We have it in our words
complete, plenitude, replete, etc.

The figure is so called when there appears to be a redundancy of
words in a sentence; and the sense is grammatically complete without
them. Sometimes the substantive appears to be redundant when its
idea is already implied in the adjective; or when two nouns are used
where one appears to be sufficient.

But this redundancy is only apparent. These words are not really
superfluous when used by the Holy Spirit, nor are they idle or useless.
They are necessary to fill up the sense, which without them would be
incomplete and imperfect.

This figure is used to set forth the subject more fully by repeating it
in other, sometimes in opposite, terms. What is first expressed
affirmatively is sometimes repeated negatively, and vice versa. It is
also used for the purpose of marking the emphasis; or, for intensifying
the feeling; or, for enhancing in some way what has been already said.
The term pleonastic may therefore be applied to all similar figures of
repetition or addition. But we have endeavoured to classify them
according to the object in view in the repetition; whether it be
definition, or interpretation, or for mere emphasis by amplification, etc.

We have reserved the term pleonasm for this latter class, where
what is said is immediately after put in another or opposite way to
make it impossible for the sense to be missed; and thus to emphasize
it.
The figure may affect words, or sentences. We have therefore
arranged the examples as follows:-
9000000 1, Words.
1. Certain idiomatic words.
2. Other words.
900000 I. Sentences.
1. Affirmative.
2. Negative.
|. Words
1. Certain idiomatic words
According to the Hebrew idiom (see under /diom), two nouns are often
used together, one of which appears to be redundant. Glassius* [Note:
Philol. Sac., Lib. i., Tract 1, Can. 38.] gives a list of certain words,
which are thus commonly used to enhance and emphasize the force
of the other noun. Not as an adjective; for in that case the figure would
be Enallage instead of Pleonasm. Some of these come under the
figures Synecdoche and Idiom (q.v. [Note: Which see.] )
The ten words are as follows:-
1. ΦρὕΗ (Pahneem), faces.
The word is always in the plural on account of the various features
of the face.

Gen. 1:2.-“And darkness was upon the faces of the deep,” {6., upon

the deep. But how much more forcible and emphatic the expression

becomes by the pleonasm.

Gen. 11:8.-“So the Lord scattered them abroad from thence upon the

face of all the earth:” {6., all over the earth.

Gen. 16:8.-‘l flee from the face of my mistress Sarai,” instead of “from

my mistress.”

Gen. 23:3.-“And Abraham stood up from before his dead.” Lit., from

the face of his dead, i.e., from the presence of his dead wife.
Sometimes the word is omitted in translation:

Exo. 7:10.-“And Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh,” Lit., before

the face of Pharaoh, i.e., before his very eyes.

Lev. 23:40.-“And ye shall rejoice before the Lord your God.” Lit.,

before the face of the Lord your God, i.e., in His very presence.

Jdg. 11:3.-“Then Jephthah fled from his brethren.” Here the A.V.

[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,

1611.] has again omitted the word “face,” but in this case has put it in

the margin.
1Sa. 14:25.-“And there was honey upon the ground.” Lit., upon the
face of the ground, {6., spread out.
Isa. 14:21.-“That they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill the
face of the earth with cities.”
Isa. 19:8.-“And they that spread nets upon the waters.” Lit., upon the
face of the waters.
Hos. 10:7.-“As the foam upon the water.” See margin, “the face of the
water.”
Amo. 5:8.-“And poureth them out upon the face of the earth.”

In the N.T., though we have Greek words, we have the same
Hebrew idiom.
Luk. 21:35.-“As a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the
face of the whole earth.” Here the Pleonasm emphasizes the universal
character of the events connected with “the great Tribulation.”
Act. 3:19.-“That so there may come (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] ) times of refreshing from the presence (face) of the Lord.”
Act. 5:41.-“And they departed from the presence of the council.” Lit.,
the face о!
Act. 17:26.-“For to dwell on all the face of the earth.”
Rev. 12:14.-“From the face of the serpent,” {6., a great way off from
the serpent.
2. ФД (Peh), mouth.

This word seems to be redundant when used with the word
“sword”: “the mouth of the sword.” But this use of the Figure is to
emphasize the fact that it is not a mere sword, but a sword with its
sharp devouring edge, which is thus compared to a mouth.

Gen. 34:26.-“And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the
edge (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] , Heb., mouth) of the sword.”

So also Exo. 17:13. Deu. 13:15. Eze. 6:11. Amo. 7:11. Luk. 21:24.
Heb. 11:34.

A sword with two mouths is a sword which devoured
exceedinglyand slew large numbers; Jdg. 3:16. Rev. 1:16; Rev. 3:13.
Heb. 4:12.

Other uses of the word are seen in
Gen. 43:7.-“We told him according to the tenor (Heb., the mouth) of all
these words”: i.e., all those things concerning which they had been
interrogated.

Num. 26:56.-“According to the (mouth of the) lot”: {6., according to
what the lot shall say or determine.

Pro. 22:6.-“Train up a child in the way he should go.”

Heb., in the mouth of his way: i.e., at the very mouth or entrance
on life, so that it may be determined in a direction of justice and
honesty, etc.

3. 6ρύη (Bahneem), sons or children
Gen. 11:5.-“The Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which
the children of men builded”: /.е., men viewed as the descendants of
Adam; the human race.
1Ki. 8:39.-“Thou ... knowest the hearts of all the children of men”: i.e.,
of all men, with emphasis on the “all.”
Ecc. 3:18.-“I said in mine heart concerning the estate of the sons of
men.”

Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] : “I said in mine heart, /Е is
because of the sons of men, that God may prove them, etc.”
Here, the figure shows that the emphasis is on “men” in contrast to
“beasts.” “Yet | said in my heart respecting MEN, God hath chosen
them to show that they, even they, are like beasts.”

Psa. 36:7.-“How excellent is thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore the
children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings,” i.e.,
men in all ages-not merely men, as such, but men in all their
successive generations.

So also in the New Testament we find the same usage:

Mar. 3:28.-“All sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men,” i.e., men
in all ages, as in Mat. 12:31.

Eph. 3:5.-“Which (i.e., the Mystery) in other ages was not made
known unto the sons of men:” i.e., to any human being.

It is according to this Figure or Hebraism that Christ is called “the
Son of Man,” as the man, the representative man, the man who had
been long promised as the seed of the woman; the man prophesied.
Therefore this title used of Christ usually has reference to that aspect
of His work as the appointed Judge of men (Act. 17:31). “The Son of
Man’ is therefore an emphatic dispensational title of Christ. It means
merely “man,” but with emphasis on all that the word means as used
of Christ and his dominion in the earth. See Mat. 10:23; Mat. 16:13;
Mat. 16:27-28. Mar. 2:28. Luk. 6:5. Joh. 3:14. etc., etc.

Ezekiel is often thus addressed by God (chap. 2, 1, 11, etc.), as
“son of man,” but in his case without the article.

See also Psa. 8:4 (the first occurrence); 144:3, etc.

In Psa. 127:4 (5) we have “children of the youth,” {6., young
children.

Joe. 3:6.-“The sons of Greece,” {6., Greeks.
Deu. 9:2.-“Sons of the Anakim”: i.e., Anakim.

The word in the plural means simply the name of the nation
viewed as descended from some progenitor: e.g., “children of Israel”:
ie., Israelites, “children of Ammon, Moab, etc.”

4. ЩН (Shem), name

(a) This word appears to be redundant in the phrase “the name of
God.” It means God Himself, and has greater emphasis than if the
simple word God were used.

Isa. 30:27.-“Behold, the name of the Lord cometh from far”: i.e.,
Jehovah Himself.

Jer. 44:26.-“Behold, | have sworn by my great name, saith the Lord”:
i.e., by myself, by my own majesty, by all that my name implies.

Mic. 5:4.-“And he shall stand and feed in the strength of the Lord, in
the majesty of the name of the Lord his God”; i.e., in the majesty of
Jehovah Himself.
Psa. 20:1 (2).-“The Lord hear thee in the day of trouble: the name of
the God of Jacob defend thee:” i.e., Jacob’s God Himself.

So also verse 7 (8), etc.
Psa. 113:1.-“Praise the name of the Lord”: i.e., “Praise Jehovah
Himself.”
(0) When used with the verb ЧША (karah), to call, it means
emphatically to name.

See Gen. 11:9; Gen. 19:22; Gen. 27:36; Gen. 41:51.

(c) The worship and profession of God is indicated by the phrases
“call upon the name of the Lord:” i.e., to worship Jehovah himself
(Gen. 4:26. Jer. 10:25).

“To love the name of the Lord;”

“To walk in the name of the Lord;”

“To praise the name of the Lord.”

All these expressions mean, by the figure of Pleonasm, to worship
and fear Jehovah Himself as opposed to self, and all other gods.

We have the same figure in the New Testament:-

Mat. 6:9 and Luk. 11:2.-“Hallowed be thy name”: i.e., “Let thy holy
majesty-thyself alone-be worshipped.”

Rev. 15:4.-“Who shall not fear Thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name?”:
ie., fear and worship Thee Thyself.

Mat. 1:21.-“Thou shalt call his name JESUS”: i.e., shall call Him that
holy one Himself.

So Luk. 1:13; Luk. 2:21.

Rom. 10:13.-“Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be
saved”: {6., not whosoever shall utter the name, but whosoever shall
be a true worshipper of God in Christ shall be saved.
So Heb. 13:15. Joh. 1:12; Joh. 2:23; Joh. 3:18, etc.
5. ЙГ (yaad), hand.

The word “hand” is used in various ways (both idiomatically and by
Metonymy, q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) to express the instrument by
which a thing is done; and this in order to put the emphasis on the fact
that the power did not lie in the instrument, but in him who used it.
Gen. 9:5.-It seems superfluous, but it is not. It emphasizes the fact
that it is God who requires punishment for shedding man’s blood, and
that he will use all and every instrument to accomplish His will.

Exo. 4:13.-“And he (Moses) said, O Lord (Adonai), send | pray thee
by the hand thou wilt send”: {6., by any agency except me!

1Sa. 17:37.-“The Lord that delivered me out of the paw (hand) of the
lion, and out of the paw (hand) of the bear, he will deliver me out of the
hand of this Philistine”: {6., the power of the lion, and the bear, and
Goliath. See Psa. 22:20 (21) (= the dog); 49:15 (16); 107:2. 1Ki. 11:12.
1Ki. 8:53.-“Thou spakest by the hand of Moses thy servant”: {6., by
Moses. Jehovah was the speaker, Moses was only the instrument.

So also 2Ki. 17:13, and many other passages in which Jehovah
speaks by the hand of his prophets.
1Ch. 6:31 (16).-“And these are they whom David set over the service
of song in the house of the Lord.” Lit., “over the hands of song,” .e.,
over the instruments of song, so as to minister music. So 2Ch. 29:27,
“the hands of the instruments (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ).

Isa. 64:6 (5).-“And our iniquities.” Lit., “the hand of our iniquities”: {6.,
the power of our iniquities.

To this belongs Psa. 7:3 (4), “If there be any iniquity in my hands.”
Lit., in the hands of me: i.e., in me. A kind of Metonymy (q.v. [Note:
Which see.] ), or Synecdoche, by which a part of a person is put for
the whole.

In the New Testament we have the same use of the word χείρ
(cheir), Παπά.

Mar. 6:2.-“That even such mighty works are wrought by his hands.”
Lit., “by the hands of him”: i.e., by Him.

Luk. 1:71.-“From the hand of all that hate us”: i.e., not merely from our
enemies, but from the power of those enemies who hate us and cause
us to serve them.

So also Act. 5:12; Act. 7:25; Act. 7:35.

In Act. 15:23, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] omits “by the hands of them,” and
substitutes the word “letters” in italics. The R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] says, “They wrote thus by them” (Gal. 3:19 and Rev.
19:2).
6. Ъек (tavech) and ULLIO (kerev), midst
The phrase “in the midst” is used phonastically when it is not to be
taken literally as being equidistant from the extremes, or when it only
adds emphasis to the sense.

Gen. 45:6.-“These two years hath the famine been in the land.” Lit.,
“in the midst of the land”: .e., all over it. Here it is not translated at all.
Num. 14:13.-“Thou broughtest up this people in (or by) thy might from
among them.” Lit., “out of the midst of them”: out of Egypt. See also
Jos. 3:17. 2Ki. 4:13. Psa. 22:14 (15).-“My heart is like wax; it is
melted in the midst of my bowels”: i.e., within me. So Psa. 40:8; Psa.
40:10 (9, 11).

Psa. 22:22 (23).-“In the midst of the congregation will | praise thee”:
ie., in the assembly of the People; not of the “church,” which was
afterwards revealed to Paul in the New Testament Scriptures as the
“Mystery.”* [Note: See The Mystery, by the same author and
publisher.] But wherever God’s People are assembled, there is He “in
the midst of ({:6., with) them.”

Psa. 40:8; Psa. 40:10 (9, 11).-“In the midst of my heart”: i.e., in me.
Psa. 48:9 (10).-“In the midst of thy temple”: i.e., in thy temple.

Isa. 10:23.-“In the midst of all the land.”
Hab. 3:2.-“Revive thy work in the midst of the years, in the midst of
the years make known’: i.e., within or during that time of Tribulation.
(See also under Anadiplosis).
Zec. 2:5; Zec. 2:10-11 (9, 14, 15).-“In the midst of thee”: i.e., in thee.
Mat. 13:49.-“And sever the wicked from among the just”: i.e., from. So
Act. 17:33. 2Co. 6:17.

For other illustrations see Mat. 13:25. Luk. 17:11. Heb. 2:12.
(Compare Psa. 22:22 (23), above).

7. MO (lev), MOO (levav), heart

The word “heart” is sometimes used pleonastically by Metonymy
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ) for the midst, when it does not mean literally
the precise middle point.
Exo. 15:8.-“In the heart of the sea.” So Psa. 46:2. Pro. 23:34; Pro.
30:19. Eze. 27:4.
Mat. 12:40.-“In the heart of the earth”: {6., in the earth.

8. Γ6μι (Davar), word.

is very frequently used in the same way.

Psa. 35:20.-“Deceitful matters.” Lit., “words of frauds”: i.e., frauds.
Psa. 65:3 (4).-“Iniquities prevail against me.” Here the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] puts
the literal meaning in the margin, “the words or matters of iniquity”:
i.e., my iniquitous matters. So with
Psa. 105:27.-“The words of his signs.”
Psa. 145:5.-“The words of thy wonders”: i.e., as rendered “thy
wondrous works.”
9. UCM (K?N, voice-

Gen. 3:8.-“They heard the voice of the Lord God walking, etc.”: i.e.,
the sound, or merely Jehovah Elohim.
Psa. 98:5.-“The voice of a psalm”: i.e., with a psalm.
Psa. 102:5 (6).-“The voice of my groaning”: i.e., my groaning.
Isa. 24:18.-“The noise (voice) of the fear. (See also under
Paronomasia).
Jer. 16:9.-“I will cause to cease out of this place in your eyes, and in
your days,

the voice of mirth, and

the voice of gladness,
the voice of the bridgeroom, and
the voice of the bride.”
This does not mean that there shall be any bridegrooms and
brides without voices, but that marriage itself shall cease.
Jer. 51:54.-“А sound of a cry.” Lit., the voice of a cry: {6., a great
clamour. So Zep. 1:10, etc.
10. YONH (yahmeem), days.
The word days joined with years, etc., is used pleonastically. See
Gen. 47:8, (9). Exo. 13:10. Jdg. 19:2 (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ).
2Sa. 19:34 (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ). Psa. 90:10.
Gen. 29:14.-“And he abode with him the space of a month.” Marg.
[Note: arg. Margin.] : “Heb., a month of days.” This, by the figure of
Hypallage (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), stands for the days of a month:
ie., a full month. So Num. 11:20-21.

11. engn (vayehee), and it came to pass.

Sometimes this word appears to be redundant; as well as the
Greek καὶ ἐγένετο (kai egeneto). That is to say, as the sense is
complete without it, it is added for the sake of emphasis.

See the preterite. Gen. 38:1; Gen. 38:7; Gen. 38:24; Gen. 38:28;
Gen. 39:10; Gen. 39:13; Gen. 39:15, etc. Mat. 7:28; Mat. 9:10; Mat.
11:1; Mat. 13:53; Mat. 19:1; Mat. 26:1. Mar. 1:9; Mar. 2:15. Luk. 1:24;
Luk. 1:41; Luk. 2:1; Luk. 2:6; Luk. 5:1.

So with the future; Deu. 18:19. Jos. 2:14. 1Ki. 18:24; 1Ki. 20:7. Isa.
7:23. Hos. 2:23. Joe. 3:15. Act. 2:6; Act. 3:23. Rom. 9:26.

2. Other Words
Deu. 33:19.-“Treasures hid in the sand.”

Here the figure is very freely rendered. Lit., it is “hidden-things
hidden of the sand”, i.e., the hidden things of the earth, in contrast with
the treasures of the sea.

Psa. 40:7.-“Then said |, Lo, | come: in the volume of the book it is
written of me” i.e., in the book, namely, Holy Scripture. (See under
Synecdoche). The second noun (in regimen) being as the genitive of
apposition. See Appendix Β.

Isa. 33:23.-“Тпеп is the prey of a great spoil divided. Heb., TT
ΠΙΜΜ (ad shalal), a prey of a spoil: i.e., a great spoil.

Dan. 12:2.-“And some to shame and everlasting contempt.”

Rom. 1:23.-“Unto an image made like.” Lit., “unto a likeness of an
image.”

By this figure the meaning is enhanced, so that it is as though it
said, “They changed the glory of the incorruptible God actually into an
image of corruptible man!
2Co. 5:1.-“The earthly house of this tabernacle,” emphasizing this
mortal body as being so different from the heavenly body.

Eph. 4:23.-“And be renewed in the spirit of your mind”: i.e., that your
whole new nature or inner man being a new creation, Divine in its
origin and impeccable in its character now causes the whole course of
life to flow in a different direction.

1Th. 2:13.-“When ye received the word of God, which ye heard of
us.” Lit., the word of hearing. λόγος ἁκοῆς (logos akoees). ἁκοῆ
(akoee) which means hearing, is often used by the figure of Metonymy
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ), for what is heard. See Joh. 12:38. Rom.
10:16. “Who hath believed our hearing”: i.e., what they have heard;
our preaching or testimony.

So here, the figure cannot be rendered literally, but the whole
sense is enchanced by the fact that it was the word of God, which they
heard, and not only heard but received it into their hearts.

Compare Heb. 4:2; and see under Metonymy-

Rev. 16:19.-“The fierceness of His wrath.”

Here, the figure is seen and beautifully translated: not literally, but
according to the enhanced sense.

The Greek is θυμὸς ὀργιίς (thumos orgees), the anger of His
wrath, the two words being synonymous. Both refer to the working of
the passions of the mind, but ὀργή (orgee) is the heat of the fire, while
θυμός (thumos) is the bursting forth of the flame. ὀργή (orgee),
therefore, is the more lasting feeling of anger and wrath. θυμός
(thumos) is the more sudden manifestation of it, so that “fierceness of
His wrath Beautifully expresses the figure.

Il. Sentences
Another kind of Pleonasm is when the sense or whole sentence is
repeated in another form, and thus put in another way. This may be
done either affirmatively or negatively.
1. Affirmatively
When the same sense is repeated affirmatively, it is hardly to be
distinguished from Synonymia (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), which it much
resembles. See Psa. 29:1-2; Psa. 89:31-32. Isa. 52:13, etc.

Gen. 1:20.-“And fowl that may fly above the earth, in the open
firmament of heaven.”

Instead of saying simply in the air, it first says “above the earth,”
and then it is further emphasized by “the open firmament of heaven,”
in order to make the distinction between these and what had been
created to be in the waters, and on the earth.

Num. 19:2.-“This is the ordinance of the law which Jehovah hath
commanded”: i.e., the law or statute, but it is put thus to impress
upon the people the importance of the special truth connected with
“the red heifer.”

Deu. 32:6.-“Is not he thy father that hath bought thee? Hath he not
made thee? and established thee?”

Joh. 1:22.-“Who art thou?... What sayest thou of thyself?”

Joh. 5:24.-“He that heareth my words, and believeth on him that sent
me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation
(judgment), but is passed from death unto life.”

Act. 13:45.-“But when the Jews saw the multitudes,
they were filled with envy,

and spake against those things which were spoken by Paul,
contradicting-

and blaspheming.”

Php. 1:23.-“Which is far better.”

Here, the return of Christ is declared to be πολλῶ (ρο(/2), much;
μᾶλλον (malion), more; κρεῖσσον (kreisson), better, than either living
or dying; out of (ἐκ) which two he was being pressed by that third
thing: viz., the great desire εἰς τὸ ἀναλῦσαι (eis to analusai) unto the
return (see under Antimeria, Epanalepsis, Resumptio, and Apostasis).

Αναλύω means to return from thence hither (not from hence
thither). See Luk. 12:36. Job. 2:1. Jdt. 13:1. 1Es. 3:3. Wisd. 2:1; 5:12.
Ecc. 3:15. Macc. 8:25; 9:1: 12:7; 15:28. Josephus Aut. 6:41.

There is no other way of being “with Christ,” as the Thessalonian
saints are told 1Th. 4:17, οὕτως (hout?s), thus in this matter, shall we
ever be with the Lord: {6., by being “caught up to meet the Lord in the
air’: the sleeping saints not preceding those who are alive, and the
living ones not preceding those who have fallen asleep (verse 15), but
both sleeping and living saints raised and changed, together (ἅμα
hama) caught away.

See under Epanalepsis (pp. 206, 207), where it is shown that for
him to abide in the flesh is better for them-better than dying-but not
better than the coming of Christ.
2. Negatively
Here the sense is first put positively and then negatively, or vice versa.
This of course greatly emphasizes the original statement, and calls
very special attention to it.
Gen. 40:23.-“Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat
him.”

Here the simple statement that the chief butler did not remember
Joseph, would have expressed the fact simply and clearly; but in order
to emphasize and forcibly mark it, it is repeated negatively:-“but forgat
him,” as though to remind us that he acted after the manner of man. In
this character of man lies the justification of that definition of
“gratitude” which the world has given in condemnation of itself:-that it
is “a lively sense of favours to come”!

Gen. 42:2.-“That we may live and not die.” So Gen. 43:8, etc.

Exo. 9:19.-“Every man and beast which shall be found in the field, and
shall not be brought home.”

Exo. 12:20.-“Ye shall eat nothing leavened: in all your habitations ye
shall eat unleavened bread.”
Deu. 28:13.-“And the Lord shall make thee the head and not the tail:
and thou shalt be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath.”
Deu. 32:6.-“O foolish people, and unwise.”
Deu. 33:6.- αἱ Reuben live and not die.”

Thus this figure simply but emphatically reverses the
pronouncement of Jacob in Gen. 49:3-4.
1Sa. 1:11.-“And remember me, and not forget thine handmaid.”
1Ki. 6:18.-The stones within the Temple-walls were overlaid with
cedar (verses 15, 16), and this cedar was further overlaid with gold
(verse 21). It is not, therefore, necessary to the description to add
verse 18: “There was no stone seen”: but it was necessary to
emphasize the fact, because of the important truth which these stones
were afterwards to be used to typify: viz., that the “living stones” (1Pe.
2:5), who are built up a spiritual house, are as completely covered with
the Divine and the glorious righteousness of Christ, in which they
appear in the presence of God, “perfect in Christ Jesus,” “complete in
Him.” Nothing whatever in or of themselves being seen.
2Ki. 20:1.-“Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live”:
ie., thou shalt surely die.
Isa. 3:9.-“They declare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not.”
Isa. 31:3.-“Now the Egyptians are men, and not God (ΕΙ); and their
horses are flesh and not spirit.” The figure is thus used to show the
people how easily Jehovah could destroy them.
Isa. 38:1.-“Thou shalt die, and not live”: to emphasize the certainty of
his death.
Isa. 45:22.-“| am God, and there is none else.” This to show that
there is none that save like Him.

So Isa. 46:9; Isa. 44:8.
Jer. 20:14.-“Cursed be the day wherein | was born: let not the day
wherein my mother bare me be blessed.”
Eze. 18:13.-“He shall not live: he hath done all these abominations; he
shall surely die.” Here, the negative is put first, and then repeated in
the positive form.
Eze. 28:2.-“Thou art a man, and not God.”
Eze. 33:15.-“He shall surely live: he shall not die.* [Note: See also
under Asyndeton.]
Hos. 5:3.-“l know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me.”
Hos. 11:9.-Ί am God, and not man.”
Amo. 5:20.-“Shall not the day of the Lord be darkness, and not
light?”

See this passage also under Erotesis and Metonymy.
Hab. 2:3.-‘It will surely come, it will not tarry.”
Luk. 18:34.-
“And they understood none of these things:
And this saying was hid from them,
Neither knew they the things which were spoken.”

All this to enhance the fact of the utter ignorance of the disciples.
Joh. 1:3.-“All things were made by Him, and without Him was not
anything made that was made.”

Joh. 1:20.-“And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, | am
not the Christ.”

Joh. 3:15.-“That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but
have eternal life.”

Act. 18:9.-“Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace.”

Rom. 4:20.-“He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief;
but was strong in faith.”

Rom. 12:11.-“Not slothful in business.” Lit., in diligence, not slothful.
See under Ellipsis and Idiom.

Rom. 12:14.-“Bless, and curse not.”
1Со. 1:10.-“That there be no divisions among you; but that ye be
perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same
judgment.”
Gal. 5:1.-“Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath
made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of
bondage.”
41Jn. 1:5.-“God is light, and in Him is no darkness at all.”
1Jn. 1:8.-“If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and
the truth is not in us.” So 1Jn. 2:4, etc.

Periphrasis; or, Circumlocution

When a Description is used instead of the Name

Pe-riph’-ra-sis, Tepigpacic, from περί (peri), around or about, and
φράζειν (phrazein), to speak.
The figure is so called because more words than are necessary
are used to describe anything: as when a thing is spoken of by a
description of it, instead of simply using its name: and this for the sake
of calling attention to it; and in order to emphasize and increase the
effect. Or, when a person or thing is spoken of by some attribute,
instead of by its proper simple name: as when, instead of saying
Luther, we say “the monk that shook the world,” or “the miner’s son.”

When this is done for emphasis, and to enhance the meaning, it is
called Periphrasis, and by the Latins CIRCUMLOCUTIO, or
CIRCUITIO: i.e., a speaking or going round about a thing.

When this is done to avoid what may be indelicate or unseemly, or
to hide what might in some way give offence, then it is called
Euphemism (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) or smooth-speech, {6., an
elegant or refined expression for a distasteful or coarse one, or a
gentle and beautiful expression instead of the strictly literal one, which
might offend the ear or the persons addressed. But as this, though a
kind of Periphrasis, is the change or substitution of one word or term
for another, we have described and illustrated Euphemism under our
third great division, viz., Figures involving Change.

Gen. 20:16.-Abimelech said unto Sarah concerning Abraham,
“Behold, | have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver; behold,
he is to thee a covering of the eyes unto all that are with thee, and
with all other: thus she was reproved.”
“A covering of the eyes” is a periphrasis for a husband. Having
said “thy brother,” Abimelech avoids calling him directly thy husband,
and thus rebukes her by using this beautiful periphrasis. See Gen.
24:65. 1Co. 11:5, etc.

Gen. 46:26.-Those that “came out of his loins”: i.e., his direct
descendants-his children and grandchildren. Hence, the number of
these differs from (and is smaller than) the number spoken of in Act.
7:14, which embraces “all his kindred”: i.e., all his other relations who
are specifically excepted in Gen. 46:26.

Jdg. 5:10.-“Speak, ye that ride on white asses (i.e., princes), ye that
sit in judgment (i.e., rulers), and walk by the way (i.e., merchants).”

These periphrases mean simply, “Speak, ye princes, ye rulers, and
ye merchants”; but their description, instead of their names,
emphasizes the classes of persons so described.
2Sa. 3:29.-“That falleth on the sword”: i.e., is put to death by the public
executioner.
2Ch. 26:5.-Uzziah “sought God in the days of Zechariah who had
understanding in the visions of God”: /.е.. who was a Prophet.
2Ch. 32:21.-“They that came forth of his own bowels (i.e., his own
sons) slew him,” who ought to have been the very last to commit such
a crime.
Pro. 30:31.-The Periphrasis, here, in the Heb. (see marg. [Note: arg.
Margin.] ) is well girt in the loins, which both the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] have rendered “greyhound”!
But the figure is used of a war-horse caparisoned, mail-clad, and
adorned for war.

Ecc. 12:1-14 is full of the most beautiful examples. See under
Euphemism and Metalepsis.

Psa. 4:7.-“Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time
that their corn and their wine increased”: i.e., more than in the joy of
their abundant harvest and vintage.

Psa. 105:18 is a Periphrasis for Joseph's captivity, referring to Gen.
39:20-23; Gen. 41:12.

Psa. 132:3-4.-The Periphrasis is used in order to emphasize David’s
determination not to rest until he had done it.
Isa. 14:15.-“Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell (Sheol), to the
sides of the pit”: {6., be dead and buried.

Jer. 21:13.-“Inhabitress of the valley and rock of the plain”: i.e., Zion is
spoken of by this description on account of its situation. Compare Jos.
15:8.

Eze. 1:22.-“The likeness of the firmament upon (or over) the heads of
the living creature was as a species of ice exceedingly strong (i.e.,
crystal), etc.”

Eze. 24:16.-“The desire of thine eyes”: {6., thy wife, as is clear from
verse 18. So verses 21 and 25.

Eze. 24:25.-“The lifting up of their soul”: marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ,
their beloved sons and daughters.

Eze. 26:9.-“Engines of war”: battering-rams.

Eze. 31:14.-“The trees by the waters.” Lit., “trees drinking water.” The
Periphrasis is used for trees that are watered by irrigation. Hence,
trees planted in a garden.

Mic. 7:5.-Here we have a double Periphrasis. “The doors of thy
mouth,” by Metonymy for words, or what is said, and “her that lieth in
thy bosom” for thy wife.
Zep. 1:9.-“Those that leap on the threshold”: i.e., the servants of the
rulers and others who were sent to enter the houses of others and
take away the good things that were therein. The words that follow
show this to be the correct interpretation; for such are said to fill their
Masters’ homes with what they have taken by violence and deceit. It
does not, as many suppose, refer to idolatrous worship, for the word
ГМВ (dalag) is not so used. On the contrary: compare 2Sa. 22:30.
Psa. 18:29 (30). Son. 2:8. Isa. 35:6.

Mat. 11:11.-“Born of women’; i.e., born by natural process. See Luk.
7:28. Job. 14:1; Job. 15:14; Job. 25:4. Luk. 2:23.

Mat. 26:29.-‘This fruit of the vine” for wine. See Metonymy-

Mat. 27:62.-“The next day, that followed the day of the preparation”:
i.e., the Sabbath. This seems to be one of the most striking instances
in the New Testament, especially when we compare Luk. 23:56. The
selfsame day is meant. But mark the difference. To the holy and
devout women that day was still the Sabbath. But in the case of those
who had rejected “the Lord of the Sabbath,” what happens? It has
been observed that, when He is on the point of leaving the Temple for
the last time, our Lord, who formerly, even in that same week, before
He had been finally rejected in that House, than which He was greater,
had spoken of it as “My Father’s House,” now calls it “your house.” So,
here again. From these rejectors of the Sabbath’s Lord, the very name
of their sacred day is taken away. And the Spirit uses this long, round-
about, depreciatory phrase: “the next day, that followed the day of the
preparation.”

Luk. 2:11.-“In the city of David”: i.e., Bethlehem.

Luk. 21:35.-“All them that dwell on the face of the whole earth”: i.e.,
everyone. See under Pleonasm-

Joh. 1:9.-“That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that
cometh into the world.”

This rendering is obtained by disregarding the figure, taking the
participle “coming” as though it were the present tense, and referring it
to “every man,” instead of to “the True Light.” The common Hebrew
Periphrasis for man was иба бтемн‚ the comer into the world*
[Note: In accordance with Luk. 2:23.] But this expression (the Coming
One) in the New Testament (and especially in John’s writings) is used
exclusively of Christ alone, and this in an exalted sense as the
Coming One. Thus the verse reads, “The True Light is he who, coming
into the world, lighteneth every man’ ({6., of course, every man
without distinction, not without exception! which would not be true).
Thus the verse teaches: (1) that no longer was the Light to be
confined to one nation or to one People, but was to enlighten all
without distinction of race; and (2) that no man can be enlightened
except by Christ.
2Co. 5:1.-“Our earthly house of this tabernacle”: i.e., this body.
1Th. 4:1-18 -In this chapter there are three examples of Periphrasis,
all used for the Gentiles:

Verse 5, “which know not God.”
Verse 12, “them that are without.”
Verse 13, “others which have no hope.”

The description, by which the Gentiles are thus spoken of, is so
much more expressive than the mere mention of the word “Gentiles.”
Heb. 1:14.-“Heirs of salvation” is a beautiful Periphrasis for the elect.
2Pe. 1:13.-“As long as | am in this tabernacle”: {6., am alive.

Verse 14, “Shortly | must put off this my tabernacle”: i.e., must die.
This is strictly speaking Euphemy (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ): viz., a
pleasant periphrasis to describe an unpleasant fact, instead of naming
it plainly.
Hyperbole; or, Exaggeration

When more is said than is literally meant
Hy-per’-bo-le is from ὑπέρ (huper or hyper), over and above, or
beyond (like Lat., super), and βολή (bolee), a casting, from βάλλειν
(ballein), to throw. Hence, a casting or going beyond, overshooting,
excess

The figure is so called because the expression adds to the sense
so much that it exaggerates it, and enlarges or diminishes it more than
is really meant in fact. Or, when more is said than is meant to be
literally understood, in order to heighten the sense.

It is the superlative degree applied to verbs and sentences and
expressions or descriptions, rather than to mere adjectives.

The figure is known by several names. It is called EPAUXESIS (Ep
”-аих-ее -sis), growth or increase upon. HYPEROCHE (hy-per’-o-ch’),
excess, superabundance-HYPERTHESIS (hy-per’-the-sis), a placing
or passing beyond, superlative. № was called by the Latins
SUPERLATIO (su-per-la‘ti-o), a carrying beyond, an exaggerating-
Gen. 2:24.-“Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother,
and shall cleave unto his wife.” This does not mean that he is to
forsake and no longer to love or care for his parents. So Mat. 19:5.
Gen. 41:47.-“And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth
by handfuls”: i.e., one grain produced a handful of grains, which is
hyperbolical of a prolific increase.

So verse 49.
Gen. 42:28.-“Their heart failed them.” Here the Hyperbole “their heart
went out,” is thus beautifully rendered.
Exo. 8:17.-“All the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land
of Egypt”: i.e., wherever in all the land there was dust, it became lice.
Deu. 1:28.-‘The cities are great, and walled up to heaven,” to express
their great height. So Deu. 9:1, etc.
Jdg. 5:4-5, beautifully sets forth the Divine Majesty manifested in
Jehovah's leading the People into the Promised Land.
Jdg. 20:16.-“Every one could sling stones at an hair and not miss”: to
describe the wonderful proficiency which the Benjamites had attained
in slinging stones. The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has added breadth in italics, so as to
lessen the boldness of the Hyperbole, “an hair breadth.”
1Sa. 5:12.-“The cry of the city went up to heaven,” to describe the
greatness of the cry.

1Sa. 7:6.-“And they gathered together to Mizpeh, and drew water, and
poured it out before the Lord, and fasted, etc.” This is an hyperbolical
description of the intensity of their weeping and lamentation. Similar
descriptions occur Psa. 6:6; Psa. 119:136. Jer. 9:1. Lam. 3:48-49.
1Sa. 25:37.-Nabal’s “heart died within him, and he became as a
stone”: i.e., he was terribly frightened and collapsed or fainted away.
1Ki. 1:40.-“So that the earth rent with the sound of them.” A
hyperbolical description of their jumping and leaping for joy.
1Ki. 10:5.-“There was no more spirit in her”: i.e., she was dazed or
stupefied, as we say, with astonishment.
2Ch. 28:9.-“A rage that reacheth up unto heaven,” to express the
intensity of the rage.
Ezr. 9:6.-“Our trespass is grown up unto the heavens,” to express the
enormity of their sin.
Neh. 8:4.-“And Ezra the Scribe stood upon a tower (marg. [Note: arg.
Margin.] ) of wood”: i.e., a high wooden structure; or, as we should
say, a platform or pulpit.
Job. 29:6.-“The rock poured me out rivers of oil”: i.e., | had
abundance of all good things. So chap. 20:17 and Mic. 6:7.
Job. 39:19.-“Hast thou clothed his neck with thunder?”

Glassius gives this as an Hyperbole for the neighing of the horse,
but it seems better to take ШТОД (ra’mah), of a flowing mane, from
ШТН (ra’am), to tremble, shake, wave, as in verse 25.

The word denotes a shaking, as well as the noise caused by the
shaking. See Psa. 104:7. Isa. 29:6. The Ixx. has φόβον (phobon), fear,
perhaps a mistake for φόβην (phobeen), a mane:-“Thou hast clothed
his neck with a flowing mane.”

Psa. 107:26.-“They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to
the depths”: to express the violence of a storm; and waves, as we Say,
“mountain-high.”

Pro. 23:8.-“The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up”: to
express the suffering of regrets at having received benefits from such
a host.

Isa. 5:25; Isa. 42:15.-These are hyperbolical descriptions to set forth
the excessive anger and judgments of Jehovah in making the Land
desolate.

Isa. 14:13.-‘I will ascend into heaven”: to express the pride of Lucifer.
Isa. 57:9.-“Thou ... didst debase thyself even unto hell (Sheol)”; to
emphasize the indignity of Ahaz, king of Judah in sending to Tiglath-
Pileser, king of Assyria, to help him against Israel, saying, “I am thy
servant!” (2Ki. 16:7, etc.).

Jer. 1:19; Jer. 15:20.-“They shall fight against thee” (see below, Jam.
4:1).

The verb, which means to wage war, is Hyperbole when used of a
single individual; but it told Jeremiah how bitter the opposition of man
would be to his Divine message.

Jer. 4:29.-“The whole city shall flee ... they shall go into thickets.” Lit.,
into the clouds; to express the inaccessible places.

Jer. 51:9.-“Her judgment reacheth unto heaven, and is lifted up even
to the skies”: to express the magnitude of Babylon’s sin which called
for such a judgment (Rev. 18:5).

Jer. 51:53.-“Though Babylon should mount up to heaven”; to express
the pride of Babylon.

Lam. 2:1.-“How hath the Lord ... cast down from heaven unto the
earth the beauty of Israel”: to express the degradation of Zion and the
height of glory from which she had fallen.

Lam. 2:11.-“My liver is poured upon the earth, etc”: to express the
depth of the Prophet's grief and sorrow at the desolations of Zion.
Eze. 27:28.-“The suburbs shall shake at the sound of the cry of thy
pilots.”

So R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , but both margins say
waves. The root ВШЩЦ (garash) means to drive out, drive about.
When used of a city, it refers to the suburbs which are driven out from
the city: but, used of the sea, it means the driving and casting about of
its waves. See Isa. 57:20.

The figure here expresses the greatness of the terror of the
defenders of Tyre in the day of its overthrow: “the waves of the sea
shall lash themselves at the sound of the cry of thy pilots.”
Dan. 9:21.-“Gabriel ... being caused to fly swiftly.” Lit. (see marg.
[Note: arg. Margin.] ), with weariness: i.e., with such swiftness as to
cause weariness.

Mat. 11:23.-“And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven,
shall be brought down to hell.” Or, as in the R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] , “And thou Capernaum, shalt thou be exalted unto
heaven? thou shalt go down (or be brought down) unto Hades.”

Mat. 21:13.-“My house shall be called a house of prayer, but ye have
made it a den of thieves.” The Lord thus emphasizes the fact which is
plainly stated in Mal. 3:8 : “Ye have robbed me.”

Luk. 14:26.-“If any man come to me and hate not his father and
mother”: i.e., does not esteem them less than me. So the verb to hate
is used (Gen. 29:31. Rom. 9:13).

“Anger’ is used for displeasure (Deu. 3:26).

“Save” is used for preserve (Job. 2:6. Eze. 18:17).

“Lose the life” is used of esteeming it as a small matter (Mat.
10:39; Mat. 16:25. Mar. 8:35. Luk. 9:24; Luk. 17:33, as is clear from
Rev. 12:11).

To mar is used for hurting (Rth. 4:6): i.e., for his heirs.

To rob is used of receiving wages (2Co. 11:8).* [Note: As we often
say, in declining a favour, “I have no wish to rob you.”]
Luk. 18:5.-“Lest by her continual coming she weary me.” True of man-
but an Hyperbole as applied to God.

See Anthropopatheia
Joh. 3:26.-“All men come to him.” Thus his disciples said to John, to
show their sense of the many people who followed the Lord.

Joh. 12:19.-“Behold, the world is gone after him.” The enemies of the
Lord thus expressed their indignation at the vast multitudes which
followed Him.

Jam. 3:6.-“The tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity.” It is a question
here, whethor κόσμος (Kosmos) does not mean ornament or adorning,
as in 1Pe. 3:3 : i.e., the decking or adorning of iniquity, glozing it over
and making that which is sinful, appear to be innocent, etc.

Jam. 4:1.-“From whence come wars and fightings among you.” The
word “war” is used hyperbolically when applied to the quarrels of
social life. So Jer. 1:19; Jer. 15:20 (q.v. [Note: Which see-] ). See
above.

Other examples of Hyperbole may be seen in 2Sa. 17:13. 2Ki.
19:24. Job. 40:18. Isa. 14:14; Isa. 34:3-4; Isa. 34:7. Eze. 26:4; Eze.
32:5-8. Amo. 9:13. Nah. 2:3. Gal. 4:15.

Examples pertaining to

comparisons
are frequent, where one thing is compared with another, when there is
nothing common between them:-

The sand of the sea and the dust of the earth are constantly used
to express a vast number. (See under /diom).

Gen. 13:16; Gen. 22:17; Gen. 28:14. 1Ki. 4:20. 2Ch. 1:9. Heb.
11:12 : of Abraham's seed.

Jdg. 7:12 : of the Midianites.

1Sa. 13:5 : of the Philistines.

1Ki. 4:29 : of Solomon’s largeness of heart.

Job. 29:18 : of the days of a man’s life.

Psa. 78:27 : of the feathered fowl in the wilderness.

Isa. 29:5 : of other peoples.

Jer. 15:8 : of Judah’s widows.

Other comparisons may be seen.
2Sa. 1:23.-Saul and Jonathan “swifter than eagles,” “stronger than
lions.”

So Jer. 4:13, and Lam. 4:19, to express great velocity.
1Ki. 10:27.-Silver and gold as stones. So 2Ch. 1:15; 2Ch. 9:20.
Job. 6:3.-Job’s grief heavier than the sand.
Job. 41:18.-Leviathan’s sneezings causing light to shine.
Hab. 2:5.-To express great rapacity.
Lam. 4:7-8.-To express and contrast the dignity and indignity of the
sons of Zion.
hypotheses.

Sometimes we have Hyperbolical Hypotheses, which are
impossible in themselves, but are used to express the greatness of
the subject spoken of.

Psa. 139:8; Psa. 139:10.-To show the wondrous omnipresence of
God.
Pro. 27:22.-To show the folly and incorrigibility of the fool.
Oba. 1:4.-To emphasize the certainty of the coming judgment of
Edom. Compare Jer. 49:16, and Mat. 11:23 as quoted above.

Mar. 8:36. Luk. 9:25.-To express the utmost gain and make the
strongest contrast.

1Co. 4:15.-To express the difference between pedagogues and
parents.

1Co. 13:1-3.-There are many hyperbolical hypotheses in these
verses, to show the all-importance of the love of God shed abroad in
the heart by the Holy Ghost.

Gal. 1:8.-An angel from heaven preaching a different gospel is
inconceivable. The hypothesis is used in order to show the importance
of the Gospel of God.

1Ki. 20:10.-“The boasting of Benhadad.”

Mat. 5:29.-“If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out ...”

Mat. 5:30.-“If thy right hand offend thee, etc.”

It is perfectly clear that Christ does not wish us to mutilate our
bodies: so that this must be an hyperbolical or emphatic exhortation to
avoid and remove everything and anything that causes us to stumble.
Luk. 10:4 is an hyperbolical command not to loiter or delay in
ceremonious salutations (such as are common even to the present
day).

Joh. 21:25 is also Hyperbole. The verb χωρῆσαι (ch?reesai) is to be
taken in the same sense, as it is in Mat. 19:11, where the Lord says,
“All men cannot receive this saying;” and in verse 12, “He that is able
to receive it, let him receive it.” The “world” is also put by Metonymy
for mankind.

Hence, Thophylact expounds χωρῆσαι (ch?reesai), to receive, by
νοῆσαι (ποεεςεῆ, to understand.

Rom. 9:3.-“For | could wish that myself were accursed from Christ” is
an hyperbolical supposition.

Or we may take this sentence as being in a parenthesis, and
render the imperfect tense ηὐχόμην (eeuchomeen) in the sense of /
used to wish.

The passage would then read, “I have great heaviness and
continual sorrow in my heart for my brethren, my kinsmen according to
the flesh, (for | used to wish myself to be a cursed thing from Christ).”

Jud. 1:23.-“Hating even the garment spotted by the flesh.” This is
an hyperbolical prohibition as to avoiding all contact with defilement.

In the statements of the Lord Jesus there often seems to be an
Hyperbole when there is really none: e.g., Mar. 16:15. Joh. 3:32.
Anabasis; or, Gradual Ascent

An Increase of Sense in successive Sentences
A-n?b’-a-sis. Greek, ἀνάβασις, from ava (ana), up, and βαΐνειν
(bainein), to go; βάσις (basis) means a stepping, or a step. So that
Anabasis means a going up* [Note: Hence, the journey or expedition
of Cyrus up from the coast into Central Asia is called his Anabasis, by
Xenophon.] or ascent. The Figure is so called when a writing, speech,
or discourse, ascends up step by step, each with an increase of
emphasis or sense.

This figure was called by the Latins INCREMENTUM (/n?-cr?-
men?-tum), growth or increase, from incresco, to grow on or upon.
Hence our words “increase” and “increment.”

When this increase or ascent is from weaker to stronger
expression, and is confined to words, it is called Climax (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).

[N.B.-When the sense or gradation is downward instead of
upward, it is called Catabasis, see below.]

The figure was also called AUXESIS (aux-ee-sis), growth or
increase.

This increase is often connected with Parallelism (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).

When the increase is not a mere increase of vehemence, or of
evil, but leads up from things inferior to things superior; from things
terrestial to things celestial; from things mundane to things spiritual;
the figure is called ANAGOGE (an?-a-g?-gee), from dvd (ana), again
or up, and ἄγειν (agein), to lead, a leading up.

Psa. 1:1.-“Blessed is the man
that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly,
nor standeth in the way of sinners,
nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.”
Here is a triple Anabasis depending on Parallelism (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).
The first are impious, as to their mind.
The second are sinners, who not only think, but carry out the
workings of their evil minds.
The third are scorners, glorying in their wickedness and
scoffing at righteousness.
Again, the first continue in that mind, taking evil counsel.
The second carry it out, as the principle of their walk.
The third settle down in their evil, as on a seat.
These three are exemplified in the first three verses of the next
Psalm, where a corresponding Anabasis is seen:-
Psa. 2:1-3.-First, we have the “heathen”: i.e., the Gentile nations; then
“the peoples”: i.e., the Tribes of God, Israel imagining vain things; and
in the third, we have “kings” and “rulers,” all conspiring together.
Act. 4:27 gives us the fulfilment:-(1) we have the kings and rulers
taking counsel; (2) we have the rage and vain imaginations; and (3)
the open and actual rebellion. On Psa. 1:1, see page 350.
Psa. 7:5.-
“Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it;
Yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth.
And lay mine honour in the dust.”
Psa. 18:37-38.-
“| have pursued mine enemies,
And overtaken them:
Neither did | turn again till they were consumed.
| have wounded them that they were not able to rise:
They are fallen under my feet.”
Isa. 1:4.-
“Ah sinful nation,
A people laden with iniquity,
Aseed of evildoers,
Children that are corrupters.”
Eze. 2:6.-“And thou son of man,
be not afraid of them,
neither be afraid of their words,
though briers and thorns be with thee,
and thou dost dwell among scorpions:
Be not afraid of the words,

nor be dismayed at their looks,
though they be a rebellious house.”

And why this Anabasis? To impress upon us that whatever
opposition we may encounter, we are to speak and give forth the word
of God, whether men will hear or whether they will forbear (verses 5
and 7), and not to corrupt it or alter it to please the people: to distribute
versions of it, not “the best that people will take,” but the best that we
can make.

Dan. 9:5.-

“We have sinned,

and have committed iniquity,

and have done wickedly,

and have rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and

from thy judgments.”

Hab. 1:5.-

“Behold ye among the heathen,

and regard,

and wonder marvellously:
For | will work a work in your days, which ye will not believe,
though it be told you.”
Zec. 7:11-
“But they refused to hearken,
And pulled away the shoulder,
And stopped their ears that they should not hear.
Yea, they made their hearts as an adamant stone, lest they
should hear the law, etc.”
Thus the Anabasis powerfully and emphatically sets forth the
secret cause of Israel’s trouble.
Zec. 8:12.
“For the seed shall be prosperous,
The vine shall give her fruit,
And the ground shall give her increase,
And the heavens shall give their dew,
And | will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these
things.”
1Со. 4:8.-
“Now ye are full,
Now ye are rich,
Ye have reigned as kings without us.”

See under Asyndeton
19π. 1:15

“That which was from the beginning,

which we have heard,

which we have seen with our eyes,

which we have looked upon,

and our hands have handled, of the Word of life.”

As contrasted with Anabasis, we here introduce Catabasis, instead
of including it under Figures involving Omission, in order that the
contrast may be more clearly seen:-

Catabasis; or, Gradual Descent
The Opposite of Anabasis
Cat-ab -a-sis, a going down: from κατά (kata), down, and βάσις
(basis), a going. This is the opposite of Anabasis, and is used to
emphasize humiliation, degradation, sorrow, etc.
The Latins called it DECREMENTUM, i.e., decrease-an increase
in the opposite direction, an increase of depreciation.
Isa. 40:31.-“They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength;
they shall mount up with wings as eagles,
they shall run, and not be weary,
they shall walk, and not faint.”
The figure Catabasis here illustrates the effect of growth in grace.
At first the believer flies; but as his experience increases, he runs, and
at the end of his course he walks. Like Paul, who first said “I suppose |
was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles” (2Co. 11:5; 2Co.
12:11). Later he writes, | “am less than the least of all saints” (Eph.
3:8); while at the end of his life he says, | am the chief of sinners! (1Ti.
4:15).
Jer. 9:1.-
“Oh that my head were waters,
and mine eyes a fountain of tears,
that | might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of
my people!” (See above.)
Lam. 4:1-2.-“How is the most fine gold changed!

The stones of the sanctuary are poured out in the top of every

street.

The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold,

How are they esteemed as earthen pitchers,

the work of the hands of the potter!”
Eze. 22:18.-“Son of man, the house of Israel is to me become dross:
all they

are brass,

and tin,

and iron,

and lead, in the midst of the furnace; they are even the dross

of silver.”
Dan. 2:1-49 -The Figure Catabasis is seen in the four successive
world-powers, showing a deterioration and a growing inferiority. Gold,
silver, brass, iron and clay. Not only is this deterioration in power and
authority shown in the decrease of value, but in the decrease of
specific gravity:-Gold is equivalent to 19-3; silver, 10-51; brass, 8-5;
iron, 7-6; and clay, 1-9. Down from 19-3 to 1-9.* [Note: See Ten
Sermons on the Second Advent, by the same author and publisher.]
Amo. 9:2-3.-
“Though they climb up to heaven, thence will | bring them
down:
And though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, | will
search and take them out thence:
And though they be hid from my sight in the bottom of the sea,
thence will | command the serpent, and he shall bite them.”
Thus powerfully is shown the impossibility of escaping from the
judgments of God.
Php. 2:6-8.-“Who, being in the form of God,
1. Thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
2. But made himself of no reputation.
3. And took upon him the form of a servant,
4. And was made in the likeness of men,
5. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself,
6. And became obedient unto death,
7. Even the death of the cross.”
These seven downward steps in the Saviour’s humiliation, are
followed in verses 9-11 by seven steps upward in His glorification.
The word “robbery” is ἁραγμός (harpagmos), and means, not the
thing grasped or seized, but the act of seizing. The contrast is
between the first man and the second: the first Adam and the last. The
Tempter promised our first parents that they should “be as gods” (i.e.,
as God Himself), and they grasped at equality with God.

The second man, on the contrary, did not yield to the temptation,
but humbled himself, and reached the highest position in glory through
suffering and death, even the death of the cross.
There is also probably a reference to Joh. 6:15. Our Lord was
perfectly aware that He was “a born King” (Mat. 2:2). And Herod and
all Jerusalem knew it too. Hence the consequent alarm. But the Lord
knew also that Crsar had, for the time, been allowed of God to lord it
over His people, for their sins, and the fulfilment of His designs. He
would therefore countenance no unauthorized attempt on the part of
those who did not believingly own Him either as to His Divine or His
human nature and rights.

Note also as to the words used: “Thought.” The verb ἡγεῖσθαι
(heegeisthai), to bring one’s self to think. Adam and his wife may have
“brought themselves to think,” at the serpent’s instigation, that the
thing he suggested was something to grasp at, and therefore worth
the grasping effort. Eve, at any rate, would seem to have thought so.
Adam we cannot, perhaps, say the same of, for “Adam,” we are
expressly told, “was not deceived.” Hence, apparently, his deeper
guilt. But no “subtil serpent” could for a moment-(notice the Aor.
ἡγήσατο, He never once admitted the thought)-induce the “second
Man,” “the Lord from heaven,” to think it possible to become equal
with God, any more than he could induce Him to deny or forget that
essentially He was so in His Divine nature: Son of God, as truly as
Son of Man. Hence we may suggest such a rendering as this: “Who,
being originally in the form of God, never considered the being on an
equality with God a usurping (or usurper’s) business.” To be what one
is is no usurping business. Nor is it so, either, to know and assert that
one is so.
Merismos; or, Distribution
An Enumeration of the Parts of a Whole which has been mentioned
Mé-ris’-mos. Greek, µερισμός (merismos), division, from µέρος
(meros), a part. The figure is so called because, after mentioning a
thing as a whole, the parts are afterwards enumerated.

Also EPIMERISMOS, which is merismos with ἐπί (epi), upon,
prefixed (Ep ’-i-mé-ris-mus).

It was called also DIALLAGE (D?-al?-la-gee), διαλλαγή,
interchange, from διά (dia), through, or asunder, and ἀλλάσσειν
(allassein), to make other than it is, to change throughout.

The Latins called it DISTRIBUTIO (Dis-tri-bu-ti-o), and
DISCRIMINATIO (Dis-crim’-i-na-ti-o). Also DIGESTIO (Di-ges -ti-o),
ie., reduction to order, classification.

Though these names express, in the first instance, division, we
have classed the figure under figures of addition; because, after the
thing has been named and mentioned, it is divided up, and the various
parts are added together to enhance the effect, increase the
emphasis, and amplify the sense.
Isa. 24:1-3 where, after stating the fact, “Behold, the Lord maketh the
earth empty,” the statement is amplified, and the way in which God will
do this and scatter the People is afterwards enumerated.
Eze. 36:4.-After saying “Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the
Lord God (Adonai Jehovah),” the word is spoken, not only to the
mountains, but to the hills and rivers, and valleys, and desolate
wastes, and the cities that are forsaken.

And all this to show how complete shall be the blessing for the
land of Israel.
Rom. 2:6-8.-Here, after stating that God “will render to every man
according to his deeds’ in verse 6, verses 7 and 8 go on to enumerate
the particulars of the two great classes of deeds.
Gal. 5:19-21.-“The works of the flesh” are first mentioned as a whole,
and then the whole sixteen are named and enumerated.
Gal. 5:22-23.-“The fruit of the Spirit” is first mentioned, and then the
nine manifestations of it are enumerated. It is “fruit” in the singular,
though made up of many parts like a cluster of grapes.
Synathroesmos; or, Enumeration
The Enumeration of the Parts of a Whole which has not been
mentioned

Syn’-ath-roes’-mos. Greek, συναθροίσµος (syn-ath-rois-mos),
gathering together, assembling. It is used of an assemblage of terms
or species brought together without being first mentioned as a whole,
and not being necessarily the distribution of the parts of any one thing.

The figure is also called APARITHMESIS (ap-a-rith -mee-sis), from
ἀπό (apo), from or off, and ἀριθμεῖν (arithmein), to count. Hence, to
count off, enumerate. The Latins, from this, called it ENUMERATIO,
which has the same meaning. The Latin term for Synathroesmus is
CONGERIES (con-ge’-ri-ees), from con, together, and gerere, to bear,
carry or bring; and denotes a heap, or combination.
From the fact that such enumeration or combination sometimes
made the argument or statement drag, the figure was called
SYRMOS, which is the Greek συρµός (syrmos), a trailing, from σύρειν
(surein), to drag, trail along. And, because a number of different words
were thus united, it was also called EIRMOS (eir’-mos), from eipw
(eir?), to string together.

It differs from Merismus in that the things enumerated are not first
briefly mentioned under one head: and it differs from Synonymia, in
that they are not synonymous, but may be of many kinds and
descriptions.

It also differs from Symperasma, in that they do not occur at the
conclusion, but in the course of what is said.

The use of the figure is to enrich a discourse, or part of it, by
enumerating particulars, or by multiplying epithets.

All the figures which we are grouping under this head are figures
of Amplification, otherwise this is called by some Amplificatio. But we
have used this as a general term for the whole group and have not
restricted it to any one particular figure.

Isa. 1:11; Isa. 1:13.-“To what purpose is the multitude of your
sacrifices unto me? saith the Lord: | am full of the burnt offerings of
rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and | delight not in the blood of
bullocks, or of lambs, or of he-goats ... Bring no more vain oblations;
incense is an abomination unto me.”
One sentence would have expressed the whole, “your sacrifices
are not pleasing to me.” But, by the figure Synathroesmos, all kinds of
sacrifices are enumerated, and the sense is thus amplified and
emphasized to show that, with all their outward show of “religion,”
there was no true worship of the spirit and heart.

So with the feasts, in verse 14, and with prayers, in verse 15.

The figure is used here to emphasize the fact that religious
ordinances and services are nothing in themselves.

In the days of our Lord there was plenty of “religion”: Isa. 1:1-31
describes the abundance of it; but there was no heart in it. It was all
form! and it was these very religious people (and not the rabble) who
crucified the Lord!

Isa. 3:16-23.-Неге, the various ornaments of women are heaped
together, to heighten the effect, and to emphasize the awful judgment
of verses 24-4:1.

Rom. 1:29-31.-Here, many abominations of the heathen are
enumerated to show what is the outcome of the “reprobate mind.”

There are other figures in this passage. See under Paronomasia,
Ellipsis, and Asyndeton.

It will be easy to recognize this figure whenever it is met with.
1Ti. 4:1-3.-Here, is an enumeration of the characters which will make
the “latter times” so perilous. Also in
2Ti. 3:1-7, we have another enumeration.
1Pe. 4:3.-Here, are enumerated the things which characterize the
condition of the Gentiles.
Epitrochasmos; or, Summarising
A running lightly over by way of Summary

When the enumeration called Synathroesmus is made, not for the
sake of amplifying, but only for the sake of abbreviating, by
summarising, so as to hurry over what is being said (rather than for
the sake of dwelling upon it), so as to pass on quickly to another
subject, it is then called EPITROCHASMOS (Ep -i-tro-chas-mos),
from étri (epi), upon or over, and τροχάζειν (trochazein), to run along
quickly. Hence Epitrochasmus means a running lightly over.

The Latins called it PERCURSIO, which means a running through.

In this connection, it is practically the same as Asyndeton (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ), where examples may be found. See Exo.
15:9-10.

Epitrochasmus is therefore a figure of Omission; in that the
conjunction “and” is omitted for the sake of running quickly through the
enumeration; and an omission of sense also, in that it abbreviates and
summarises.

On the other hand it comes under the head of figures involving
addition in that it at the same time certainly amplifies by a copious
pouring forth of words.

Thus, while there is an actual addition of words, that very addition
is for the purpose of avoiding a longer statement.

We have therefore mentioned this figure here in this division.

Heb. 11:32 is an example; where a number of persons are named or
alluded to, but not dwelt upon.
Diexodos; or, Expansion
A lengthening out by copious Exposition of Facts
When Synathroesmos is used of facts, etc., instead of single words or
things, it is called DIEXODOS (Di-ex’-od-os), a way out through, from
διά (dia), through; ἐξ (ex), out of; and ὁδός (hodos), a way-

The figure is employed when there is a copious statement or
exposition of facts, not so much for the purpose of amplification, or of
abbreviation, as of digression. Indeed, it is the opposite of Syntomia:
which means a cutting off short, abridgment: whereas Diexodos is a
lengthening out by a digression in order to expand.

See 2Pe. 2:13; 2Ре. 2:15; 2Pe. 2:17. Jud. 1:12-13; Jud. 1:16, etc.

Epitheton; or, Epithet

A Naming of a Thing by describing it
E-pith’-e-ton. Greek, ἐπίθετον, from ἐπίθετος (epithetos), placed upon,
or added. The figure is so-called when an adjective or noun is used,
which adds to the sense of the thing spoken of by simply holding forth
some attribute, character, or quality descriptive of it. The adjective or
the noun used for it by Enallage (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) is thus
placed in apposition to it for the purpose of amplification by way of
distinction, explanation, or description.

Hence it was called by the Latins APPOSITUM, and is so put by
apposition.

When the epithet is continued and used, after the reason for its
being given has ceased, it is then called Ampliatio (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ). Most of the examples will be found under that name. An
Ampliatio is a change; an Epitheton is an addition.

Gen. 21:16.-“And she (Hagar) went, and sat her down over against
him, a good way off, as it were a bowshot”: the bowshot being an
Epithet for a certain distance.
Exo. 25:25; Exo. 37:12. 1Ki. 7:26. 2Ch. 4:5. Psa. 39:5. Eze. 40:5.-An
hand-breadth is used as an Epithet for a certain thickness.
Num. 24:20.-“And when he looked on Amalek, he took up his parable,
and said,

Amalek was the first of the nations,

But his latter end shall be that he perish for ever.”
The last phrase “he perish” is an epithet, the result of the war
which Jehovah would wage with him. The marginal reading shows the
difficulty felt by the translators. Literally it is

“The first of the nations is Amalek,

And his end-for ever he perisheth”: i.e.
“The first of the nations is Amalek,

And his end is destruction.”

For Amalek was the first who fought against Israel (Exo. 17:8), and
Jehovah will fight against Amalek to the end (Exo. 17:16).

We may compare Amo. 6:1.

Jdg. 20:16.-A “hair-breadth” is used as an epithet of a minute width.
See Hyperbole.

Joh. 17:3.-“That they might know thee, the only true God.” Here “true”
is not a mere adjective qualifying God, but is an epithet: “That they
might know Thee-God, the only God, the true (or very) God.” So 1Jn.
5:20. 1Th. 1:9.

Such epithets are used of God, not to qualify but to distinguish Him
from them who are no gods. See Gal. 4:8. 1Co. 8:5-6.

Luk. 22:41.-A “stone’s-throw’ is used as an epithet of a certain
distance.
1Pe. 4:3.-“Abominable idolatries’-abominable things: i.e., the worship
of idols.
Syntheton; or, Combination
A placing together of two Words by Usage
Syn’-the-ton. Greek, σύνθετον, from σύν (sun), together, and τιθέναι
(tithenai), to place. Hence, σύνθετος (synthetos) means put together.

It is used of this Figure because two words are by common usage
joined by a conjunction for the sake of emphasis, as when we say
“time and tide,” “end and aim,” “rank and fortune.”

It differs from Synthesis (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]). And also from
Hendiadys, where only one thing is meant, though two are used (see
Hendiadys).

Gen. 18:27.-“Dust and ashes.”
Psa. 115:13.-“Small and great.”
Act. 7:22.-Moses was “mighty in words and in deeds.”

There are many examples where certain words thus become
linked together by usage: e.g., “rich and poor,” “old and young,” “bread
and wine,” “meat and drink,” “babes and sucklings,” “sins and
iniquities,” “faith and works,” “God and man,” “thoughts and deeds,”
etc., etc.

The opposite of this Figure is Hendiadys (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ),
by which, though two words are used, only one thing is meant.

Here, in Syntheton, much more is meant than is expressed and
embraced by the conjunction of the two words.

Horismos; or, Definition
A Definition of Terms
Hor-is’-mos. Greek, ὁρισμός (horismos), a boundary, from opiZw
(horizo), to divide, mark out, settle, define. Hence, it is called
DEFINITIO, definition
It is the figure by which the meaning of terms is defined and fixed,
briefly and precisely: the definition of terms, so important in all kinds of
argumentation.
3. Descriptio
By way of Description
In this division the addition to the sense is made by giving a
description of a person, place, time, thing, or action. Hence, the term
Descriptio is applied to some eleven different forms which the
Description takes according to its nature or character. The first is
Hypotyposis; or, Word-Picture

Visible Representation of Objects or Actions by Words
Hy’-po-ty-po-sis. Greek, ὑποτύπωσις, from ὑποτυποῦν (hypotypoun),
to sketch out; from ὑπό (hypo), under, and τυποῦν (typoun), to
impress; and this from τύττος (typos), impression. № occurs twice in the
New Testament (1Ti. 1:16 and 2Ti. 1:13). In the plural it would express
what we call “outlines.”

The name is given to this figure because it describes an action,
event, person, condition, passion, etc., in a lively and forcible manner,
giving a vivid representation of it.
In Latin, therefore, the name is REPRSENTATIO, representation,
and ADUMBRATIO, a shadowing out or a sketching out in words.

Other Greek names of this figure are DIATYPOSIS (di’-a-ty-po-
sis), from διά (dia), through, and τυπιοῦν (typoun), to impress. The
verb meaning {ο form thoroughly, to give a thorough form.

ENARGEIA, ἐνάργεια (en-ar-gei-a), vivid description, visible
representation (in words).

PHANTASIA, φαντασία (phan-ta’-si-a), a making visible, a
presentation of objects to the mind-

ICON (εἰκών, eik?n), an image, figure, likeness; and Latin IMAGO,
an imitation, copy, or picture, but especially a statue, visibly presenting
the object to the eye or mind.

EICASIA. Greek, εἰκασία (ε{-ο8΄-5{-8), a likeness, or image, from
εἰκάζω (eikazo), to make like to, represent by a likeness.

Thus the nature of this figure is quite clear from the various names
given to it. Hypotyposis is employed whenever anything is so
described as to present it forcibly and vividly to the mind.

There are many examples in Scripture: but it is not necessary to
transcribe whole passages, and in some cases whole chapters, in full.

Examples may be classified, in which things are thus vividly
presented to the eye, and so described as to seem very real.

(1) The blessings on the obedience of Israel (Deu. 28:1-14).

(2) The curses and the judgments (Deu. 28:15-45. Isa. 1:6-9; Isa.
34:1-17. Jer. 4:19-31). The greater part of Lamentations (esp., 4:4-8).
(3) The captivity and scattering of Israel (Deu. 28:49-68).

(4) The executioners of God’s judgments (Isa. 5:26-30).

(5) The hollowness of mere religion, such as existed when Christ
was on earth (Isa. 1:11-15).

(6) The folly of idolators and idols and idolatry (Isa. 44:9-17; Isa.
46:6-7).

(7) The sufferings of Christ (Psa. 22:1-31; lix. Isa. 53:1-12).

(8) The glory and triumph of Christ (Col. 2:14-15, etc.).

(9) Certain similitudes: as when the blessings of Christ's coming
are compared to the rising sun (Mal. 4:2), or a warrior (Rev. 19:11-16);
or when God is compared to a wine-refreshed giant when He arises to
avenge His people (Psa. 78:65-66); or when the godly remnant of
Israel is compared to a Bride (Psa. 45:1-17); or when the prosperity of
the wicked is likened to a green bay-tree (Psa. 37:35); and that of the
righteous to the palm and the cedar (Psa. 92:12-14).

Prosopographia; or, Description of Persons
Pros?-?-po-graph?-i-a, from πρόσωπιον (pros?-?-pon), a face, one’s
look, or countenance, and later, a person; and γράφειν (graphein), to
write, or describe. Hence Prosopographia is a vivid description of a
person by delineating the general mien, dress manners, etc.

Called by the Latins PERSON.DESCRIPTIO, description of a
person

See Mat. 3:4, where John’s appearance, etc., is described.

See also the graphic description of the Lord, after the execution of
His judgments in the day of His vengeance (isa. 63:1-6). (Compare,
for the interpretation of the passage, Isa. 34:8; Isa. 61:2).

Also the description of Jerusalem compared with a person when
she was caused “to know her abominations” (Eze. 16:4-26).

When the description is confined to the personal appearance, or
features, it is called

Effictio; or, Word-Portrait

Ef-fic’-ti-o, from Latin, effingo, to form, fashion artistically, to portray.
Hence, the name is given to the figure when a portrait is given in
words, and the features, etc., are delineated and described.

When the description is confined to the character, morals, of a
person, it is called

Characterismos; or, Description of Character
Char’-ac-ter-is -mos. Greek, χαρακτηρισμός (characteerismos),
designation by a characteristic mark. Hence, the name is given to the
figure which gives a description of the character or morals of a person.

When the description is confined to manners, it is called

Ethopeeia; or, Description of Manners

?th?-0-poe -i-a. Greek, ἠθοποῄα (eethopoeja), expression of manner
or custom; hence, used of a description of a person’s peculiarities as
to manners, caprices, habits, whether in voice, gestures, or otherwise.

Called by the Latins NOTATIO, a marking or noting. Hence, a
description of any manner or custom, etc., that a person is peculiarly
noted for.

Called also MORUM EXPRESSIO.-
Isa. 3:16.-“The daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched
forth necks, and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and
making a tinkling with their feet.”
See also Jer. 48:3-46; and Luk. 18:9-14, where the Pharisee and
the Publican are described by their manner, gesture, etc.

In 1Ре. 3:3, where women are exhorted to show the disposition of
mind by avoiding the outward costume which is described.

When the description or expression is confined to the feelings it is
called

Pathopeeia; or, Description of Feelings
Path’-o-poe-i-a. Greek, παθοποῄα, from πάθος, feeling, and ποιεῖν.
(poiein), to make. Hence, the figure is so named, when the feelings
and affections are described or expressed.

For examples, see Isa. 22:4; Isa. 49:15. Jer. 9:1-2; Jer. 23:9; Jer.
31:20. Hos. 11:7-9. Mar. 3:5; Mar. 6:32; Mar. 7:34; Mar. 10:14; Mar.
10:21. Luk. 19:41. 2Co. 2:4. Gal. 4:19-20.

We have included this figure here, and also under those involving
change, because sometimes this description is given by way of
additional information, and sometimes it is given instead of naming or
otherwise indicating the person or thing spoken of.
The reader must distinguish these examples himself.
When the description is confined to sayings, it is called
Mimesis; or, Description of Sayings
Mi-mee-sis, from the Greek µίµησις (mi-mee-sis), imitation, from
μιµεῖσθαι (mimeisthai), to imitate.

The name is used when the sayings (and sometimes motions and
thoughts) of another are described or imitated by way of emphasis.

Hence called by the Latins IMITATIO, imitation.

See Exo. 15:9 (see Asyndeton). Psa. 137:7; Psa. 144:12-15 (see
Ellipsis). Ι58. 14:13-14; Isa. 28:15. Hos. 14:2-3. Eze. 36:2. Mic. 2:11;
Mic. 3:11.

So also 1Co. 15:35, and Php. 3:4-5.

Sometimes there is a use of a word which another is wont to use,
and which is repeated so as delicately, but yet acutely, to direct him
aright. As in 2Co. 10:1; 2Co. 10:10; and Gal. 6:2.
Pragmatographia; or, Description of Actions
Prag’-mat-o-graph’-i-a, from πρᾶγμα (pragma), an action or event,
and γράφειν (graphein), to write: [.Θ., a description of an action or
event. Hence, called by the Latins, REI AUT ACTIONIS DESCRIPTIO.

See Joe. 2:1-11, where the description of the actions connected
with the great people and strong which should come upon Zion is
minutely and graphically given.

Mat. 24:1-51 and Mar. 13:1-37 describe the events of the Great
Tribulation; and Luk. 21:12, etc., the events which should long
precede it.

See also some minute touches, especially in the Gospel of Mark:
e.g., 8:33; and Act. 6:15; Act. 7:55-56.

When the description is confined to places, it is called
Topographia; or, Description of Place
Top’-o-graph а, from τόπος (top’-os), a place, and урафем
(graphein), to write or describe.
Hence it is used of the figure which adds something to what is said
by describing a place; or any peculiarity which marks the place, and
throws light on what is being treated of.

Called by the Latins LOCI DESCRIPTIO.

Topographia is such a description of a place as exhibits it to our
view; as the description of Sheol, Isa. 14:9-12; Isa. 30:33 :

The new Heaven and Earth, Isa. 65:17, etc.; Rev. 21:1, etc.:

The future glory of Jerusalem and the Land, Isa. 33:20-21; Isa.
35:6-10. Psa. 46:5-6; Psa. 60:6-9.

In Psa. 89:12, the description shows that the points of the
compass are always* [Note: Excepting perhaps parts of Ezekiel
written in Babylon.] reckoned with reference to Jerusalem, “The north
and the south thou hast created them: Tabor (in the west) and Hermon
(in the east) shall rejoice in thy name.”

Thus the description of these places completes the four points of
the compass.

The names of the places in Isa. 10:28-32 give us the course of the
invasion of the land by the King of Assyria.

The “Sea” is frequently mentioned by way of description to show
that the West is intended: the Mediterranean being on the West of the
Land. See Num. 2:18 (Heb.). Jos. 16:5-6. Eze. 42:19 (Heb.).

In Psa. 107:3, however, the Sea evidently denotes the Red Sea;
and though the word “sea” is in the Hebrew, it is rendered “South.”
The emphasis put upon the wonderful Exodus is thus quietly but very
powerfully introduced:” And gathered them out of the lands, from the
east, and from the west, from the north, and from the sea!” because
the deliverance from Egypt was through the sea.

In Psa. 72:8, “from sea to sea” means from the Mediterranean to
the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf. Compare Exo. 23:31.

Sometimes a description of place is added and thrown in to
convey a lesson, e.g., Joh. 6:10, “Now there was much grass in the
place.” Act. 8:26, “Which is desert,” to show that it mattered not to the
true servant whether he ministered in a city (verse 5), and gave joy to
crowds of people (verse 8), or whether he ministered to one soul in
the desert (verse 26).

See also Isa. 65:17-25. Joe. 2:3. Luk. 16:24-26. Joh. 11:18.

When the description is confined to time, it is called

Chronographia; or, Description of Time
Chron’-o-graph -i-a, from Χρόνος (chronos), time, and γράφεῖν
(graphein), to write. It is called by the Latins, TEMPORIS
DESCRIPTIO, a description of the time.

The Figure is used, when, by the addition of the time, something
explanatory is given which helps to the understanding of what is said;
or, supplies some important fact; or, implies some extra lesson.

All such expressions, as “then” or “at that time,” should be noticed;
and attention should be directed to the time to see when it was, and
why the particular time should have been thus described or referred
to. See
Mat. 11:25-26.-“At that time Jesus answered and said, | thank thee, O
Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things
from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even
so Father: for so it seemed good in thy sight.”
Why is this specially marked by the words “at that time”? Because
it was the time when John the Baptist questioned Him (11:2-6); when
the people are rebuked for having said that John had a devil, and
Christ was a glutton and drunkard (16-19); when the cities, in which
most of His mighty works were done, repented not, and had their
“woe” pronounced (20-24). “At that time,” Jesus said, “Even so,
Father: for so it seemed good in thy sight.” In other words, He found
rest “at that time,” in the hour of what man would call disappointment
and failure, in the Father’s will. And then, He turns to His weary and
heavy-laden servants, and invites them to come and find their rest
where He found His; and thus to wear His yoke, and find His rest.
(See this passage under other Figures: viz., Synecdoche,
Catachresis, Idiom, and Parechesis.)

Joh. 10:22.-“And it was winter.” This brief description of time, is
intended to convey to us a sense of the humiliation and rejection of
the Lord Jesus. The next verse tells how He “walked in Solomon's
porch,” on the bleak summit of Mount Moriah, to keep Himself warm;
no one asking Him to house or inviting Him even into such of the
Temple Chambers as had fires in them.

We may compare Joh. 18:18.

See also Mar. 6:48. Act. 2:15; Act. 10:3; Act. 10:9, etc.

When the description is confined to the circumstances, it is called
Peristasis; or, Description of Circumstances
Per-is’-ta-sis’, from the Greek περιστασις, anything that is round
about, circumstances; and this from περι (peri), around, and στάσις
(stasis), a standing, setting, or placing:

Peristasis is the name of the figure which describes the
circumstances; and hence, it was called by the Latins,
CIRCUMSTANTI.DESCRIPTIO.

See Joh. 4:6; Joh. 18:18, etc.

When this figure is used for the purpose of moving the passions by
a graphic description of circumstances, it is called

DIASKEUE.

Di-as-keu’-ee’ (διασκευή), from διασκευάζεσθαι (diaskeuazesthai),
to arm, equip, or prepare oneself. the argument being made out of the
particular circumstances of a case.

When the description is confined to the order of certain persons,
things, events, or circumstances, it is called
Protimesis; or, Description of Order
Pro’-ti-mee’-sis (προήµησις), a putting of one thing before another:
from ττρό (pro), before, and τιµή (timee), honour. Hence, the figure is
employed when things are enumerated according to their places of
honour or importance, using the particles “first,” “again,” “then,” or
“firstly,” “secondly,” “thirdly,” etc.

This figure; therefore, increases the emphasis of a particular
statement by setting forth the order in which the things treated of
stand, or take place.
1Co. 15:5-8.-Speaking of the resurrection of Christ, it is written: “He
was seen of Cephas; then of the twelve: after that, he was seen of
above five hundred brethren at once: ... after that, he was seen of
James; then of all the apostles: and, last of all he was seen of me
also, as of one born out of due time.”

In like manner we have the same words employed of the
resurrection of “those who are Christ's”:
1Co. 15:22-24, where, after saying that, as all who are in Adam die,
even so all who are in (the) Christ will be made alive (see
Synecdoche), “but every man in his own order (or rank).

“Christ the first-fruits;

“Afterward they that are Christ's at His coming.
“Then cometh the end”; or, “then, τὸ τέλος, the end” or the last final
rank of this great army of raised people. So that there is no such thing
as what is called a “general resurrection”; for as nearly nineteen
hundred years have elapsed between the “first-fruits” and “them that
are Christ's,” so there will be a thousand years between then and the
last or second resurrection (Rev. 20:1-6). See page 87, under Ellipsis.
1Th. 4:15-17.-Here, We have the order of events at the coming forth
of Christ into the air to receive His people unto Himself, before His
coming unto the earth with them.

This new revelation was given to the apostle “by the word of the
Lord,” and contains facts not before made known.

The resurrection, here revealed, is altogether different in time and
order from the “first” and “second” resurrections in 1Co. 15:22-24 and
Rev. 20:1-6. These were never a secret, but known, and referred to in
the Old Testament Scriptures (Dan. 12:1-2. Psa. 49:14 (15), etc.), as
well as in the Gospels (Joh. 5:28-29, etc.). This resurrection takes its
place with that which is told as a secret in 1Co. 15:51-57 : “Behold, |
show you a mystery”: i.e., “Behold, | tell you a secret.”

So, here, it is revealed that “we which are alive and remain unto
the coming of the Lord shall not prevent ({6., precede) them which are
asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God; and the
dead in Christ shall rise first: then, we which are alive and remain
shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord
in the air: and so (i.e., thus, in this manner) shall we ever be with the
Lord.”
4. Conclusio
By way of Conclusion
This figure is the addition of a short sentence at the end of a
paragraph or statement, for various purposes: either by way of moral,
deduction, approbation, apology, or reflection, etc. Different names are
given to it, according to the purpose for which it is employed.
The sense being complete without it, the figure comes under the
head of an addition
Epicrisis; or, Judgment
Addition of Conclusion by way of Deduction
Ep’-i-cri’-sis, from the Greek ἐπὶ (epi), upon, and κρίσις (krisis), a
judgment sentence. Hence Epicrisis is used as an adjudication.

It is a short sentence added at the end by way of an additional
conclusion, other and more than has been already stated: not
necessary to the sense of it, but as showing that there is something
more and something deeper than what lies on the surface.

It notes a cause or a consequence arising from the place,
occasion, end, or effect, of things, actions, or speeches.

A few examples will explain better the use of this figure.

Joh. 1:24.-The sentence, “And they which were sent were of the
Pharisees,” is added to remind us of the fact that the Pharisees made
a great point of Baptism; which compelled them therefore to
acknowledge the baptism of John to be a matter of great importance.
Joh. 1:28.-“These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan,
where John was baptizing.”

This is to explain that the people had come a long way.

Joh. 3:24.-“For John was not yet cast into prison.”

This is why John had not ceased to baptize.

Joh. 5:39-40.-Here we have in two verses a double Epicrisis, the first
approving, and the second condemning, but both adding a solemn
truth, independent of the statement that goes before.
A “Search the Scriptures;
B For in them ye think ye have eternal life.
ΑΓ’ And they are they which testify of me:
Bo And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.”
The structure agrees also with this. It is thus exhibited in four
members.

In the first and third members (A and A), we have the Scriptures;
while in the second and fourth (B and B, the Epicrisis), we have the
action and the conduct of those who possessed them.

Note that the verb “search” is imperative, and not indicative, as we
never find the verb in the indicative commencing a sentence without
the pronoun or some other word; while the imperative is frequently so
used. See Joh. 14:11; Joh. 15:20. The Jews read, but they did not
“search.”

The verb “think” also means {ο hold as an opinion, believe (see
Act. 15:28. 1Co. 4:9; 1Co. 7:40, etc.).

Joh. 6:4.-“And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.” This is
added to explain how it was that so many were going out of the
country up to Jerusalem before the Passover in order to purify
themselves.

Joh. 7:5.-“For neither did his brethren believe in him.”

This solemn addition explains a great deal: especially Mar. 3:1-35;
from which it is clear, by comparing verses 21 and 31, that His mother
and brethren set out to lay hands on Him, bringing on themselves the
rebuke of verses 32-35. See under Correspondence (page 384).

Joh. 8:20.-“These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in
the Temple: and no man laid hands on him; for his hour was not yet
come.”

This Epicrisis is used to show how easily (humanly speaking) He
might have been taken where there were so many people assembled.
Joh. 8:27.-“They understood not that he spake unto them of the
Father.”

By means of this additional explanatory conclusion, we are made
astonished at the unbelief and blindness of the Jews. See 12:37.
Joh. 9:14.-“And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay,
and opened his eyes.”

The Epicrisis here explains much concerning the events recorded
in this chapter.

Joh. 9:22.-“These words spake his parents, because they feared the
Jews:” etc.

This is added to explain the action of the parents of the man born
blind.

Joh. 10:22-23.-“And it was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication,
and it was winter, and Jesus walked in the temple, in Solomon's
Porch.”

This is added to show that Christ happened to be at that feast, and
that he had not gone up to it as to the other feasts. After He had
accomplished His journey to the feast of Tabernacles (7:8), He made a
delay there, so as to remain over the feast of Dedication. (For this
feast, see 1Ma. 4:59). See page 455.
Joh. 11:13.-“Howbeit Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that
he had spoken of taking of rest in sleep.”

This Epicrisis is used to explain the meaning of what the Lord
Jesus had said.
Joh. 11:30.-“Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in
that place where Martha met him.”

This explanation is needed to enable us to understand the course
of events.
Joh. 12:33.-"This he said, signifying what death he should die.”
Joh. 12:37.-“But though he had done so many miracles before them,
yet they believed not on him.”
Act. 19:20.-“So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.”
1Jn. 3:1.-After the words “sons of God,” the best Texts with R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] add καὶ ἐσμεν (kai esmen), and
we are; or, and such we are. This is a short parenthetical reflective
comment. Compare 1:2.
Epitasis; or, Amplification
Addition of Conclusion by way of Emphasis
E-pit’-a-sis (ἑπίτασις), a stretching, from ἑτή (epi), upon, and Teivelv
(teinein), to stretch or extend.
The Figure is used when a concluding sentence is added by way
of increasing the emphasis. It is not independent of what has gone
before, but it is some emphatic increase added to it by way of
conclusion.

The Latins called it INTENTIO, which means the same thing, a
straining, or tension; increase, or augmentation

The difference between this figure and the figure of Amplification is
that it comes by way of Conclusion.

Exo. 3:19.-“And | am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go,
no, not by a mighty hand.”

Mar. 10:43-44.-In verse 43, “Whosoever will be great among you,
shall be your minister (or servant).”

And in the next verse the meaning is the same, but the Epitasis is
added, “of all”:-“Whosoever will be the chiefest, shall be the servant of
all.”

Joh. 13:34.-“A new commandment | give unto you, That ye love one
another-(then the Epitasis is added)-as | have loved you, that ye
also love one another.”

Act. 7:5.-“And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not so much
as to set his foot on.”

Rom. 13:1.-“The powers that be are ordained of God.” This is an
Epitasis to explain and augment the force of the previous enunciation.
2Co. 3:1-18 : where verse 6 is an Epitasis to verse 5, explaining and
emphasizing what has been before said.
Anesis; or, Abating

Addition of Conclusion by way of lessening the Effect
An’‘-e-sis (ἄνεσις), a loosening, relaxing, abating. This is the opposite
of Epitasis; the addition of a concluding sentence which diminishes the
effect of what has been said.
2Ki. 5:1.-“Now Naaman, captain of the host of the king of Syria, was a
great man with his master, and honourable, because by him the Lord
had given deliverance unto Syria: he was also a mighty man of valour,
but he was a leper”: and therefore all his grandeur and importance
counted for nothing.
Epiphonema; or, Exclamation
Addition of Conclusion by way of Exclamation
Ep?-i-pho?-nee?-ma (ἐπιφώνημα), from ἐτή (ερῆ, upon, and @wveiv
(pho?nein), to speak. Hence, something uttered besides; an
exclamation at the conclusion of a sentence.

When the exclamation occurs as an independent separate
passage, then it is called Ecphonesis or Exclamatio (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ), and does not come under this division as a mere addition of
words; but rather under their application as an expression of feeling.
See Ecphonesis.

And note, further, that, when the exclamation is thrown in
parenthetically, it is called Interjectio (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

Epiphonema is called also DEINOSIS when it is very brief and
emphatic, from δείνωσις, an enhancing, exaggerating.

Jdg. 5:31.-“So let all thine enemies perish, О Lord.”
Psa. 2:12.-“Blessed are all they that put their trust in him.”
Psa. 3:8.-“Salvation belongeth unto the Lord. Thy blessing is upon
Thy people.”
Psa. 14:7.-At the conclusion of the Psalm, this exclamation is added:
“Oh, that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion!” etc.

See under Paronomasia and Меюпоту-
Psa. 135:21.-“Praise ye the Lord”: {6., Hallelujah, comingat the end of
this and other Psalms, is an Epiphonema.
Jon. 2:9.-“Salvation is of the Lord.”
Mat. 11:15.-“He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.”

Also in all the sixteen occurrences of this Epiphonema. (See under
Polyptoton).
Mat. 17:5.-“This is my beloved Son, in whom | am well pleased.” And,
then, the beautiful Epiphonema is added, “Hear ye Him” as an
appended exhortation.
Mat. 20:16.-“For many are called, but few are chosen.”

See also 22:14.
Mat. 24:28.-“For wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be
gathered together.”

See under Parcemia-
Rev. 22:20 is a beautiful Epiphonema, not only to the chapter and the
book, but to the whole Bible: “Even so, come, Lord Jesus.”
Proecthesis; or, Justification

Addition of Conclusion by way of Justification
Pro-ec’-the-sis (προέκθεσις), from Ττρό (pro), before, and ἔκθεσις
(ekthesis), a setting out by way of conclusion, from ἐκτθημι
(ektitheemi), to set out. A conclusion from what has been before set
out or put forth.

The figure is employed when a sentence is added at the end by
way of justification. It is a conclusion by way of adding a justifying
reason for what has been said.

Mat. 9:13.-‘I will have mercy, and not sacrifice: for | am not come to
call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.”

Mat. 12:12.-“How much then is a man better than a sheep? Wherefore
it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days.”
Epitherapeia; or, Qualification
Addition of Conclusion by way of Modification
Ep’-i-ther-a-pei‘a, from ἐπῄ (epi), upon, and θεραπεία (therapei’-a), a
waiting on, especially of medical attendance, from θεραπεύεῖν.
(therapeuein), to serve as an attendant, to tend, especially medically.

Hence, the compound Epitherapeia is used of applying an
additional remedy. And the figure is employed when a sentence is
added at the end, fo heal, soften, mitigate, or modify what has been
before said, so that modesty or other feeling might not be offended or
injured. It may be added by way of apology.

But where this is added beforehand, to secure indulgence, it is
called Protherapeia (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ); and where this is done
to prepare for a shock it is called Prodiorthosis (q.v. [Note: Which see.]
).

Mat. 26:40-41.-“What, could not ye watch with me one hour? Watch
and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is
willing, but the flesh is weak.”
Php. 4:10.-‘I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now, at the last, your
care of me hath flourished again; wherein ye were careful also, but ye
lacked opportunity.”

When what has been said concludes with an example, it is called

Exemplum; or, Example
Addition of Conclusion by way of Example

This is not the same as using examples in the course of argument. We
do this latter when in any reasoning we adduce one known object or
thing as a sample of another in respect to some particular point.

Exemplum, on the other hand, is when we conclude a sentence by
employing an example as a precedent to be followed or avoided:-
Luk. 17:31-32.-“In that day, he which shall be upon the house top, and
his stuff in the house, let him not come down to take it away; and he
that is in the field, let him likewise not return back. Remember Lot’s
wife.”
Symperasma; or, Concluding Summary
Addition of Conclusion by way of a brief Summary
Sym’-per-as’-ma (συμπέρασμα), a finishing or end. In logic it is the
conclusion of a syllogism. It is from σύν (sun), together with, and
περαιόω (peraio?), to carry over or across-

Hence, Symperasma means to conclude along with, to end
together, and is used when what has been said is briefly summed up,
and when certain foregoing enumerations are given in a brief epitome.

It is called also ATHRCESMOS (a-throes’-mos), from ἀθροίξω
(athroiz?), to collect or gather together.

It differs from Synathroesmus (q.v. [Note: Which see-] ) in that it is
used at the end and as the conclusion of what has been before said,
and not in the course, and as part of the statement.

Mat. 1:17.-Here, in this one verse, is given a brief summary of the
preceding sixteen verses.
Joh. 20:30.-Here is a brief reference to much that is not contained in
the whole Gospel.
Heb. 11:39.-Here, after having enumerated a number of persons, and
of facts concerning them, one brief sentence includes and is true of
them all: “And these all, having obtained a good report through faith,
received not the promise.”
5. Interpositio

By way of Interposition
This figure is the addition of a sentence, not at the end, but in the
midst of another sentence, which has no grammatical connection with
what precedes or follows. It has a close connection with it, but it may
or may not be necessary to the sense.

The current of the language is interrupted by the interposition of
another sentence, which requires to be considered separately. There
may, however, be more than one such sentence interposed.

These interpositions are of various kinds, according to their nature,
and to the object in view.

Sometimes the interposition requires the leading word to be
repeated after it: such repetition is called Apostasis (see under
Epanalepsis).

Sometimes it is not put down at all till after the interposition.

In the structure of a passage, (see under Correspondence), the
various members are more or less parenthetical with relation to those
that precede and follow.
For example, in an alternate structure such as the first and second
chapters of the Epistle to the Hebrews:-
A Heb. 1:1-2.
BOO Heb. 1:2-14.
A“ Heb. 2:1-4.
B Heb. 2:5-18.
B is parenthetical with reference to A and A, while A is parenthetical
with reference to B and B: A reading on in continuation of A; and B the
same with reference to B.
So also in an introverted structure:
Aco—
Boo—
coo—
οἳ--
Bo
Aco—
The whole of B, C, C, and B are parenthetical with relation to A
and A; while C and C are the same with reference to B and B-
The observation of this is often necessary to the true
understanding and indeed the interpretation of many passages of
Scripture.

But these are not true interpositions, and do not come under the
class of figures called INTERPOSITIO-

They are not always marked, either in the Greek Text or in the
translations. Modern editors of the Greek Text mark them sometimes
by commas, and sometimes by colons.

The translators have sometimes indicated them by the use of the
curved lines (--), or by dashes - and -, or simply by commas. But there
are many more beside those that are thus pointed out.

Parenthesis

Parenthetic Addition, by way of Explanation: Complete in Itself
Pa-ren’-the-sis, παρένθεσις, from παρα (para), beside, and ἐντιθέναι
(entithenai), to put or place in-

The figure is used when a word or sentence is inserted which is
necessary to explain the context. As to grammar, the context is
complete without it, but not as to clearness and sense.

A true Parenthesis is not complete without the context. When it is,
it is called Parembole. (See below.)

Parentheses are for the most part indicated; but there are others
which are not marked.

Heb. 2:9.-“But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the
angels

(for the suffering of death crowned with glory and honour);
that He, by the grace of God, should taste death for every* [Note: l.e.,
without distinction, not without exception.] man.”

This shows that the Lord was made a little lower than the angels in
order that He might die. And that he was crowned with glory and
honour on account of His sufferings.t [Note: See Christ's Prophetic
Teaching, by the same author and publisher.]
2Pe. 1:19.-“We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto
ye do well that ye take heed (as unto a light that shineth in a dark
place, until the day dawn, and the day-star arise) in your hearts.”
Here, it is clear that there must be a parenthesis, for it is prophecy
that is the light that shines, and Christ and His appearing are the Day-
star and the Day-dawn. Surely, the meaning cannot be that we are
exhorted to take heed to the prophetic word until Christ is revealed in
our hearts! No; but we are to take heed in our hearts to this prophetic
word, until the fulfilment comes in the appearing of Christ-the rising of
Him who is called “the Morning Star.” See under Ellipsis, page 92.

When the interposed sentence is thrown in by way of remark, it is
called

Epitrechon; or, Running Along
Parenthetic Addition by way of Statement thrown in, not complete in
itself
Ep’-i-tre-chon, from ἑτή (epi), upon, and τρέχειν (trechein), to run: to
run over or along, to overrun.

The figure is so-called because the sentence, more or less short,

is rapidly thrown in as an explanatory remark.
SUBCONTINUATIO is the name given to it by the Latins; because
sentences thus thrown in, by the way, as a kind of undercurrent,
continue one thought or statement underneath another, or follow
another immediately after.

Gen. 15:13.-“Know of a surety that thy seed* [Note: I.e., from the birth
of Isaac, Abraham’s “seed,” not from the call of Abraham, as Exo.
12:40.] shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs

(and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them;)
four hundred years.”

The Epitrechon, like a true Parenthesis, is the result of Structure,
or Correspondence:

a0 “Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land

that is not theirs:
6099 and shall serve them;
b=0 and they shall afflict them;

a- four hundred years.”

Here in “a” and “a” we have the whole sojourn, while in “b” and “b”
we have the servitude in Egypt.

Gen. 46:26.-“All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt
(which came out of his loins)
besides Jacob’s sons wives, all the souls were three-score and six.
This Epitrechon points us to the difference between the
enumeration here (66) and Act. 7:14, where it is 75 souls, because it
there includes “all his kindred.”

Exo. 12:40.-“Now the sojourning of the children of Israel
(who dwelt in Egypt)
was four hundred and thirty years.”

It does not say (as most commentators read it) that they were or
had been in Egypt 430 years. It was “the sojourning of the children of
Israel” which continued during that time, while the Epitrechon, “who
dwelt in Egypt,” is a parenthetical interposition thrown in as a further
explanation as to these children of Israel.
1Ki. 8:39; 1Ki. 8:42.

Psa. 68:18 (19) is a beautiful Epitrechon-
“Thou hast ascended on high,
Thou hast led captivity captive:
Thou hast received [and given* [Note: See Ellipsis, page
74.]] gifts for men,
(Yea, for the rebellious also),
That the Lord God might dwell among them.”

How blessed and full of precious truth and teaching is the fact thus
thrown in. Reaching out and stooping down to the most unworthy
recipients of such divine gifts.
Mat. 9:6.-“But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on
earth to forgive sins,
(then saith he to the sick of the palsy)
Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thine house.”
Joh. 2:9.-“(but the servants which drew the water knew).”
Joh. 4:7-9.-“Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink
(For his disciples were gone away into the city to buy
meat).
Then saith the woman,” etc.
Act. 1:15.-“And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the
disciples, and said
(the number of names together were about an hundred and
twenty):
Men and brethren,” etc.
Rom. 3:7-8.-“Why yet am | also judged as a sinner? And [why] not
[say]
(as we be slanderously reported, and some affirm that we
say):
Let us do evil that good may come?”
Rom. 8:19-21.-This parenthesis is better shown by exhibiting the four
alternate members:-

A™ 19. Expectation.

Bo 20-. Reason. (Creation made subject).

Α:: -20. Expectation.

B 21. Reason. (Creation delivered).

See under Ellipsis (page 87), and note that the words “not willingly,
but by reason of Him who hath subjected the same” are an
Epitrechon, and the previous statement requires to be taken
up-“[waiteth, | say] in hope.”

Rom. 9:2-3.-“I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart
(for | used to wish, even | myself, to be accursed from
Christ) for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh.”

The word ηὐχόμην (eeuchomeen) is by Hyperbaton (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]) put (out of its usual place) at the beginning of the
sentence in order to attract our attention; and, when we look further at
it, we notice that it is in the imperfect tense, and is best as well as
most correctly rendered: “I used to wish.”
See under Euche, a figure so called on account of this very word,
eeuchomeen.
Rom. 10:6-7.-“Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven?
(that is, to bring Christ down from above);
or, Who shall descend into the deep?
(that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead).”
Eph. 2:5 “(by grace ye are saved).”
Col. 2:21-22 is an important Epitrechon, which writes folly on all the
attempts to improve the old nature, by vows and pledges and badges.
Heb. 12:20-21.
Cataploce; or, Sudden Exclamation
Parenthetic Addition by Way of Exclamation
Cat’-a-plok’-ee (καταπλοκή), from κατά (kata), down, and πλοκή
(plokee), a twining or plaiting. The figure is so called because the
short sentence so interposed is intertwined with another. This name is
given to a parenthesis when it takes the form of a sudden
exclamation.
Eze. 16:23-24.-“And it came to pass after all thy wickedness
(woe, woe unto thee! saith Adonai-Jehovah)

That thou hast also built unto thee,” etc.
Rom. 9:2-3.-This is a kind of Cataploce as well as Epitrechon (see
page 428), and Euche-.

Parembole; or, Insertion

Parenthetic Independent Addition
Par-em -bol-ee’ (παρεμβολή), from παρά (para), beside, év (en), in,
and βολή (bolee), a throwing or casting (from βάλλω, ball?, to throw).

Hence, a Parembole is an insertion beside, between, or among

others; and the name is used when the sentence interposed is
independent and complete in itself; and would make complete sense if
it were separated from the sentence which it divides.
It is called also EPEMBOLE (Ep-em’-bol-ee, ἑπεμβολή), from ἐτί
(epi), upon, ἓν (en), in, and βολή (bolee), a casting. A casting in upon
And PAREMPTOSIS (Par-emp-to -sis, παρέµττωσις), from παρά
(para), beside, év (en), in, and πτῶσις (pt?sis), a falling (from τήπτω,
to fall), a falling in beside.
Isa. 60:12 is a Parembole, complete in itself.
Mar. 7:3-4.-These two verses are interposed, and are independent of
the context.
Luk. 17:9 is an independent question and answer thrown in, in the
midst of the argument.
Act. 2:8-11 form а Parembole.
See also Rom. 3:27-31; Rom. 6:13-17.
Rom. 8:2-15 is a long Parembole setting forth the further relation
between flesh and spirit: /е., the Old man and the New man, the Old
nature and the New divine and spiritual nature, the TveGya (рпеита),
or πνεῦμα xpioToU (pneuma-Christou) which is given to all who are in
Christ. Consequently the “s” in spirit should be a small “s,” and not a
capital letter, in all these verses: the Holy Spirit Himself not being
mentioned, or referred to, as a Person until verse 16.

The whole of the interpretation of this important passage depends
on this Parembole-* [Note: See article on Rom. 8:1-39, Things to
Come, May, 1899.]
1Co. 15:20-28 is an independent digression: and the sense reads on
from verse 19 to 29. Thus:-

(19). “If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men
most miserable ...

(29). Else, what shall they do who are being baptized? /t is for the
dead, if the dead rise not all?” etc. (see under Ellipsis, page 41).
2Co. 3:7-16.

Php. 3:18-19.-These verses are an independent Parembole-.

Eph. 1:19-23 is a Parembole, and the sense reads on from 1:19 to
chap. 2:1: “And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us-
ward who believe (...), even you who were dead in trespasses and
sins,” etc. But see under Ellipsis (page 109).
Eph. 3:2-13 is a Parembole, and a digression explaining Paul's
special ministry in connection with the Gentiles.
1Ti. 5:22-23.-“Keep thyself ... infirmities” forms a Parembole.
Heb. 12:18-29.
1Pe. 3:19-21.* [Note: See The Spirits in Prison, by the same author
and publisher.]
1Jn. 1:2.
Interjectio; or, Interjection

Parenthetic Addition by Way of Feeling
In’-ter-jec’-ti-o, from the Latin, inter, between, and jacio, to throw:
something thrown in between. While, therefore, the word is similar in
meaning to the former figure, this term is confined to an exclamation
which is thrown in by way of parenthesis.

But note that, when the exclamation is added at the end of a
passage, it is called Epiphonema (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

And when it is quite independent of the context, and forms a
definite part of it, it is called Ecphonesis (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ).
Psa. 42:2 (3).-“My soul is athirst for God, for the living God;” and then
is thrown in, parenthetically, the exclamation, “When shall | come and
appear before God?”

Eze. 16:23-24.-“And it came to pass after all thy wickedness (woe,
woe unto thee! saith Adonai Jehovah), That thou hast also built thee a
brothel-house in every street” (i.e., an idol’s temple).

See also under Cataploce.

Ejaculatio; or, Ejaculation
Parenthetic Addition by way of Wish or Prayer
E-jac’-u-la‘-ti-o, from the Latin e, out; and jaculari, jaculatus, the
throwing of a javelin, from jaculum, a javelin (from jacere, to throw).
This name is confined to a parenthesis which consists of a short
prayer, such as “God forbid,” “God be praised,” “Thank God.”
Hos. 9:14.-Here, the prayer is in the form of a question:-“Give them, О
Lord: what wilt thou give? give them,” etc. See under Aposiopesis-
Hypotimesis; or, Under-Estimating
Parenthetic Addition by way of Apology or Excuse
Hy-po-ti-mee’-sis (ὑποτίμησις), from ὑπτό (hypo), under, and ήµησις
(timeesis), a valuing, or estimating, from τιμάω (tima?), to deem, or
hold worthy. Hence, an under-estimating, under-valuing.
A parenthetical remark is so called when it is apologetic, in order
to excuse some bold or extravagant use of language, such as “If | may
so say,” or “So to speak,” or, “As it were.”
The name MEILIGMATA is given to the words so used, from
μείλιγμα (meiligma), anything that serves to soothe. And this from
μειλίσσω (meiliss?), to soothe, propitiate.

Rom. 3:5.-“I speak as a man.”
2Co. 11:23.-“I speak as a fool.”
Anrresis; or, Detraction
A Parenthetic Addition by way of Detraction.
(Parenthetic Tapein?sis)
An oe’-re-sis (ἀναίρεσις), from ava (ana), up, and αἱρέω (hair?), to
take away. Hence Anoeresis means a taking up or carrying ой-

The parenthesis is so called, when, by a negative expression, we
appear to take something away from the sense, but really add to it,
and thus emphasize it.

Aneeresis is the figure Tapein?sis (or Antenanti?sis) used
parenthetically.
6. Ratiocinatio
By way of Reasoning

This class of additions to what is said does not relate to the sense,
description, conclusion, or parenthesis, but to argumentation, or
reasoning.

These figures are not often used in Scripture, and are artifices of
argument invented for human reasoning.

We give them, in order to make our subject complete.

Paradiegesis; or, a Bye-Leading
Addition of Outside Facts by way of Reasoning

Par-a-di-ee-gee-sis, from the Greek παρά (para), beside, διά (dia),
through, or by means of, and ἡγεῖσθαι (heegeisthai), to lead, or guide.
Hence the figure is used when there is an addition of facts which are
beside the case, yet help to establish it.
Sustentatio; or, Suspense
Addition suspending the Conclusion, by way of Reasoning

Συσ-τεν-ταχ-{]-2: 1.Θ., suspension. The figure is used when additions to
the argument are made by which the conclusion is kept in suspense.

It is called also CREMAN from κρεµάννυμι (kre-man-nu’-mi), to
hang up, suspend-

Also EXARTESIS (ἑξάρτησις), ex-ar-tee -sis, a hanging from,
connection of parts with one another, from ἐξαρτάω (exarta?), to hang
upon, suspend.
Paraleipsis; or, a Passing by
Addition (brief) of that which is professedly ignored
Par-a-leips’-is, παράλειψις, a passing over, omitting, from παρά
(para), beside, and λείπω (leip?), to leave behind. Sometimes spelt
PARALEPSIS.

Called also PARASIOPESIS, παρασιώπησις, a passing over in
silence, from παρά (para), beside, and σιώπησις (si?peesis), a being
silent, from σιωπάω (5ἱ2ρ82), to be silent.

The Latins called # PRTERMISSIO, a /eaving aside,
proetermission, a passing over, and PRTERITIO, a going past,
passing by-

This figure is used when the speaker professes a wish to pass
something by in silence, which he nevertheless adds by a brief
allusion to it.

Heb. 11:32.-“And what shall | more say? for the time would fail me to
tell of Gedeon and of Barak,” etc., and then proceeds to allude briefly
to them all in verses 33-38.
Proslepsis; or, Assumption
Addition (full) of what is professed to be ignored
Pros’-leeps’-is (πρόσληψις), a taking or assuming besides. From
πρός (pros), to, toward, or beside, and λῆψις (leepsis), a taking, from
λαμβάνω (lamban?), to take-

By the Latins it was called ASSUMPTIO, an assuming, or taking
to, and CIRCUMDUCTIO, a leading round.

This name is given to the preceding figure of Paraleipsis, when it is
expanded beyond its proper limits; and the speaker or writer, after
having professed to omit it, proceeds actually to add and describe the
particulars.

Apophasis; or, Insinuation
Addition of Insinuation (implied) by way of Reasoning
A-poph’-a-sis (ἁπόφασις), denial, negation, from ἁποφάναι
(apophanai), to speak off, and this from ἁπό (apo), off, and φάναι
(phanai), to speak or say-
Proslepsis; or, Assumption
Addition (full) of what is professed to be ignored
Pros’-leeps’-is (πρόσληψις), a taking or assuming besides. From
πρός (pros), to, toward, or beside, and λῆψις (leepsis), a taking, from
λαμβάνω (lamban?), to take-

By the Latins it was called ASSUMPTIO, an assuming, or taking
to, and CIRCUMDUCTIO, a leading round.

This name is given to the preceding figure of Paraleipsis, when it is
expanded beyond its proper limits; and the speaker or writer, after
having professed to omit it, proceeds actually to add and describe the
particulars.

Apophasis; or, Insinuation
Addition of Insinuation (implied) by way of Reasoning
A-poph’-a-sis (ἁπόφασις), denial, negation, from ἁποφάναι
(apophanai), to speak off, and this from ἁπό (apo), off, and φάναι
(phanai), to speak or say-
Proslepsis; or, Assumption
Addition (full) of what is professed to be ignored
Pros’-leeps’-is (πρόσληψις), a taking or assuming besides. From
πρός (pros), to, toward, or beside, and λῆψις (leepsis), a taking, from
λαμβάνω (lamban?), to take-

By the Latins it was called ASSUMPTIO, an assuming, or taking
to, and CIRCUMDUCTIO, a leading round.

This name is given to the preceding figure of Paraleipsis, when it is
expanded beyond its proper limits; and the speaker or writer, after
having professed to omit it, proceeds actually to add and describe the
particulars.

Apophasis; or, Insinuation
Addition of Insinuation (implied) by way of Reasoning
A-poph’-a-sis (ἁπόφασις), denial, negation, from ἁποφάναι
(apophanai), to speak off, and this from ἁπό (apo), off, and φάναι
deception.
Asteismos; or, Politeness

Addition by graceful disclosure of what is professedly concealed
As-te-is“-mos. Greek, ἀστεϊσμός, clever talk, from ἀστεῖος (asteios), of
the city, polite, from Gotu (astu), city-

The figure is used when, by pretending to conceal something, the
speaker adds some graceful language which discloses it.

It comes in here when it is used as an addition by way of
reasoning. We have included it also in Figures involving change,
where the application of words is affected by way of feeling. (See
below).
Enallage; or, Exchange
Exchange of one Word for another
E-nal’-la-gee, ἑναλλαγή, an exchange, from ἐἑναλλάσσειν
(enallassein), to exchange, from ἐν (en), in, and ἀλλάσσειν (allassein),
to change.

Enallage is a figure of grammar; and consists of an exchange of
words, or a substitution of one word for another. It differs from
Metonymy (α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ) in that Metonymy is the exchange
or substitution of one noun for another noun: while Enallage is a
change of one part of speech for another (Antimeria); or one tense,
mood, person, or number for another (Heterosis); or one case for
another (Antiptosis), but never of one noun for another.

It is also called ENALLAXIS (ἐνάλλαξις, e-nal-lax’-is), from another
part of the same verb as Enallage, and with the same meaning, an
exchange.

Also ALLQEGOSIS (ἀλλοίωσις, alloi-q-sis), a change, or
alteration, from ἀλλοιόω (айоюф), to make different, to change.
Enallage consists of the following forms:
Antimereia,

Antiptosis,

Heterousis, and

Hypallage’, which will be considered in order:-

Antimereia: or, Exchange of Parts of Speech
The Exchange of one part of Speech for another
Ап -й-те ‘-rei-a, from ἀν ή (anti), over against or instead of, and µέρεια
(mereia) (for µερός), a part. It means that one part of speech is used
instead of another:-as a noun for a verb or a verb for a noun, etc.
The following are the several kinds of Antimereia:-
ANTIMEREIA. Exchange of Parts of Speech.
|. Of the Verb.
1. — Infinitive for Noun.
2. Participle (active) for Noun.
3. Participle (passive) for Adjective.
Il. Of the Adverb.
1. Adverb for Noun.
2. Adverb for Adjective.
Ill. Of the Adjective.
1. Adjective for Adverb.
2. Adjective for Noun.
IV. Of the Noun.

1. Noun for Verb.

2. Noun for Adverb.

3. Noun for Adjective.

4. Noun (repeated) for Adjective (Epizeuxis).

5. Noun (in regimen) for Adjective.

6. Noun (governing) for Adjective (Hypallage).

7. The former of two (both in regimen) for Adjective.

8. The latter of two (both in regimen) for Adjective.

9. One of two in same case for Adjective (Hendiadys).

10. Noun (in regimen) for Superlative Adjective.
HYPALLAGE. Interchange. The Antimereia of the governing Noun.
|. Antimereia of the Verb

1. The Infinitive for a Noun
Gen. 32:24 (25).-Heb.: “Until the go-up of the dawn”: {6., until the rise
or break of dawn.
1Ki. 8:52.-“To hearken unto them in all their crying unto Thee”: {6., in
all their prayer.
1Ch. 16:36.-“And all the People said, ‘Amen,’ and be there praising
Jehovah”: i.e., and said, “Amen! and praise Jehovah!”
2Ch. 3:3.-“Now these [are the things wherein] Solomon was instructed
(marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] , founded) for the building of the house of
God”: i.e., these are the instructions or fundamentals [given to]
Solomon for the building, etc.
Psa. 101:3.-“I hate the doing of those turning aside”: i.e., | hate the
work of sinners.
Psa. 132:1.-“Lord, remember David and all his being afflicted”: i.e., all
the things in which he has been afflicted, or simply the noun as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] , “his afflictions.”
Isa. 4:4.-“By the spirit of judgment and the spirit of burning (or
consuming)”: i.e., by the spirit of burning or consuming.

Dan. 10:1.-“And the word to understand”: i.e., “and he had a
comprehension of the word, and an understanding of the vision.”

Luk. 7:21.-“He granted to see”: {6., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “he gave sight.”
Php. 1:23.-“Having a desire unto the return”: {6., (/it.) unto the to
return (i.e., the returning of Christ). Ἀναλύω (апа/иф), to loosen back
again, but always from there to here; hence, fo return (not from here to
there, which would be to depart). See the only occurrences of the
verb:- Luk. 12:36. Tob. 2:1. Jdt. 13:1. 1Es. 3:3. Wisd. 2:1; 5:12. Sir.
3:15. 2Ма. 8:25; 2Ma. 9:1; 2Ma. 12:7; 2Ma. 15:28; and Josephus Ant.
vi. 4, 1.

The meaning is that the Apostle knew not which to choose,
whether to live or to die. His living would be better for them than his
dying, but not better than a third thing which pressed him out of the
other two, viz., the return of Christ, which was “far better” than either.
See further under Epanalepsis, Resumptio, Pleonasm, etc.

Heb. 2:15.-“Through fear of death were all their living, subject to
bondage”: i.e., “all their lifetime,” as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
Heb. 4:1.-“А promise being left us to enter in”: {6., of entering in.
2. The Participle (active) for a Noun
Gen. 23:16.-“Current money of purchasing”: {Θ., “silver (or money)
which passes with the merchant.”

Job. 13:4.-“Ye are all healing-ones of no value”: i.e., as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
physicians.

Pro. 14:20.-“The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but many
are loving the rich”: i.e., the friends of the rich.

Jer. 23:2.-“Against the shepherding-ones feeding my people”: i.e., the
feeders of my People. Compare Gen. 4:2, where the term “shepherds”
refers more to the keeping of the sheep. Hence the addition, here, of
the feeders.

Psa. 17:14.-“Whose belly thou fillest with thy hid”: {., thy treasure or
secret thing.

Joe. 1:17.-“Rotted have scattered things”: i.e., rotted have the seeds.
Mat. 4:3. 1Th. 3:5.-“He the tempting-one”: {6., he who tempteth, {6.,
the tempter.

Mat. 11:3 and elsewhere, “the One Coming”: i.e., the Coming One.
Mar. 6:14, etc.-“John the baptizing-one”: {6., John the baptizer.
Mar. 15:29.-“The destroying-one”: {6., thou destroyer. And “building it
in three days”: i.e., the builder of it.
1Co. 9:25.-“He the striving-one”: ie., the one that strives-the
competitor.
Heb. 1:6, etc.-“The world”: οἰκουμένη (oikoumenee), inhabited, hence
used for the world as inhabited.
Heb. 9:17.-“The maker of the covenant,” (0 διαθέµενος): ie., the
sacrifice. As long as the sacrifice was alive, the covenant was not
made. It was only ἐπὶ νεκροῖς (epi nekrois) over dead sacrifices that
the covenant could have force. See further under Ellipsis (page 69).
Heb. 12:18.-“Ye are not come to a mount being touched”: {6., a
touchable, palpable or literal mount.
Rev. 9:11.-“The destroying-one”: i.e., the Destroyer.

3. The Participle (Passive) for Adjective
2Ki. 18:21.-“The staff of this bruised reed”: i.e., this broken reed.
Psa. 12:6 (7).-“Silver tried in a furnace”: i.e., pure silver. See under
Ellipsis, page 71.
Psa. 18:3 (4).-“I will call upon the Lord, the praised One” i.e., laudable
one, or as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] worthy to be praised.
Pro. 21:20.-“There is treasure to be desired”: ᾖ6., a most desirable
treasure.
Isa. 33:19.-“Of a scorned tongue that thou canst not understand”: {6.,
a foreign tongue, which is often despised. The A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
renders it “stammering” (but puts ridiculing in the margin); and the
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] “strange” (with stammering in
the margin).
Zep. 2:1.-“O nation not desired”: ie., not desirable, or better,
incapable of shame.
Gal. 2:11.-“Because he was to be blamed”: i.e., blameworthy, or
better, because he stood self-condemned.
Heb. 12:27.-“That those things which cannot be shaken may remain”:
i.e., the unshakable things; the things that know no shaking.

Il. Antimeria of the Adverb
1. Adverb for Noun
Luk. 10:29.-“And who is near to me”: /.е., my neighbour. The meaning
is seen from Mat. 22:39; and Rom. 13:10.
Joh. 1:25.-“He that cometh behind me (i.e., after, as to position) is
preferred before me”: i.e., has precedence of me. The adverbs, ὁπίσω
(opisq) behind, and ἔμπροσθεν (emprosthen) before, never refer to
time, but to position or grade.

The verbs to become and to be, with an adverb or adverbial
phrase often change the signification of the adverb into that of a noun.
See 2Sa. 11:23. Joh. 6:25. Mar. 4:10. Act. 5:34; Act. 13:5. Rom. 7:3;
Rom. 16:7. Eph. 2:13. 2Th. 2:7. 2Ti. 1:17.

2. Adverb for Adjective
Gen. 30:33.-“So shall my righteousness answer for me to-morrow”:
i.e., some future day.
1Sa. 25:31.-“That thou hast shed blood causelessly”: i.e., innocent
blood. A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
render it “causeless.”

Neh. 2:12.-“l, and not enough men with me”: {6., as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] “some
few men.”

Pro. 3:25.-“Be not afraid of fear suddenly”: i.e., sudden fear.

Pro. 15:24.-“The way of life is above, to the wise, that he may depart
from sheol beneath”: i.e., the lower Sheol.

Pro. 24:28.-“Be not a witness against thy neighbour heedlessly”: a
rash, and hence likely to be, a false witness.

Pro. 27:1.-“Boast not thyself of to-morrow’: i.e., of any future day.

Mat. 6:34.-“Be not full of care for to-morrow”: i.e., have, then, no
anxiety for any future day.

Joh. 15:5.-“Without (or apart from) me ye can do nothing”: /е.,
severed from me.

2Со. 4:16.-“Though our without (/е., external or outward) man perish,
yet the within ({:6., internal or inward) man is renewed day by day.”
2Co. 4:17.-“For our momentary lightness of tribulation (i.e., light
tribulation) worketh for us exceedingly excessively an eternal weight of
glory”: {Θ., an excessively surpassing eternal weight of glory.” R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] “more and more exceedingly.”
Ill. Antimereia of the Adjective

1. Adjective for Adverb
Act. 16:37.-“They have beaten us in public”: i.e., publicly.
1Co. 12:11.-“Dividing to each one personally”: i.e., severally.

2. Adjective for Noun

Gen. 1:9-10.-“Let the dry appear”: i.e., the land. So Psa. 95:5; and, in
the Greek, Mat. 23:15.
Isa. 24:23.-“Then the pale shall be confounded”: ᾖθ., the moon,
because pale.
Rom. 1:15.-τὸ kat’ ἐμὲ πρόθυμον” (to kat’ eme prothumon),
according to my ready [mind], i.e., my readiness.
Rom. 1:19.-“The known (i.e., knowable or discoverable) of God”: i.e.,
that which may be learnt even by the natural man.
Rom. 2:4.-“Not knowing the kind [thing or giff] of God”: i.e., the
kindness of God.

1Co. 1:27-28.-‘Foolish,” “weak,” “base,” “despised”: i.e., as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] , “the foolish things,” etc.

2Co. 8:8.-“To prove the genuine of your love”: i.e., the genuineness
(or genuine character of).

Eph. 6:12.-“The spiritual [powers, bands, hosts] of wickedness”: {6.,
wicked spirits.

Php. 2:6.-“Equal with God”: {6., on an equality with God.

This is what the first man grasped at, tempted and deceived by the
Old Serpent. But Christ, the second man, the last Adam, did not think
it a matter to be grasped at in this way, “but humbled Himself,” and
through suffering and death reached His exaltation. (See pages 202,
433).

Php. 4:5.-“Let your moderate be known unto all men”: i.e., your
moderation.

Heb. 6:17.-“The unchangeable of his counsel”: ie., the
unchangeableness of His counsel, or the unchangeable [character] of
His counsel.
IV. Antimereia of the Noun
1. A Noun for a Verb
This is called “Antimereia of the Noun.”
Jdg. 16:23.-“Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together
for to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their God, and to rejoice.” Lit,
for a great rejoicing.
Isa. 7:1.-“Rezin ... and Pekah ... went up toward Jerusalem to war
against it.”
Lit., for the war. Fig., to make war.
Mar. 12:38.-“And he said unto them in his doctrine.” Here, the noun
“doctrine” is put instead of the verb, “during his teaching” or, “while he
taught.”
2. A Noun for an Adverb
Isa. 21:7.-“And he hearkened diligently with much heed”: i.e., most
attentively.
Psa. 75:2 (3).-“I will judge upright [judgments]”: i.e., righteously. So
Pro. 31:9.
Psa. 139:14.-“I will praise thee, for | am made with fears and wonder’:
ie., fearfully and wonderfully.
Lam. 1:8.-“Jerusalem hath sinned a sin”: i.e., grievously.
Mar. 7:3.-“Except they wash their hands with the fist”: {6., carefully or
assiduously.
Mar. 8:32.-“And he spake the word with boldness”: i.e., boldly, openly,
or publicly. So Joh. 7:26; Joh. 10:24; Joh. 11:14; Joh. 16:25; Joh.
16:29; Joh. 18:20; Joh. 11:54.
3. A Noun for an Adjective

Thus “circumcision” and “uncircumcision” are used instead of
circumcised or uncircumcised persons.

Anathema, which means accursed, is an accursed or
excommunicated person or thing.
1Co. 14:12.-“So also ye, forasmuch as ye are zealous of spirits.”
Here, the noun is used instead of an adjective (πνευμάτων for
πνευματικῶν). Both the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] insert “gifts” in italics.
1Со. 14:32.-“And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the
prophets.” Here, the noun “spirits” is again used for the adjective
Spiritual gifts. See under Metonymy.
Gal. 1:14.-“Being more exceedingly a zealot”: i.e., zealous, as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
16111]
Heb. 12:11.-“Any discipline for the present (time) seems not to be of
joy” (xapdc, charas): i.e. joyous, “but of grief’ (λύπης, /ирее5): {9.,
grievous, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.]
1Jn. 5:6.-“Because the Spirit is truth.” Here the noun is rendered
literally: but it is used by the figure Antimereia for the adjective true;
and the meaning is that the witness of the Holy Spirit concerning
Christ is true in every place and in every particular.

If this figure were not Enallage, then it would be a Metaphor, which
is quite out of the question.
4. A Noun (repeated) for an Adjective
A noun is sometimes repeated in order to express the adjective in the
highest or superlative degree. This is called Geminatio or Epizeuxis
(q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ).
Isa. 26:3.-“Thou wilt keep him in peace, peace”: i.e., perfect peace.
See under Epizeuxis, where many examples are given.

5. A. Noun (in regimen) for an Adjective

When, of two nouns, one noun is placed in regimen: i.e., when one
governs the other in the genitive case: the latter word (sometimes two
words) becomes an adjective.

The natural and ordinary way of qualifying a noun is by using an
adjective. But, if it is wished to emphasize the adjective, then this rule
is departed from; in order to attract the attention of the reader, and to
tell him that the adjective is very emphatic, and is to be read as if it
were underlined or under-scored in ordinary writing. For example:
suppose we are speaking of Angels, and our thought is simply of them
and their being, we should use the word “mighty” as an adjective, and
say “Mighty ANGELS,” but if we wished to emphasize the adjective
“mighty,” and call attention to the fact that we are not referring to
angels as such, but to their wondrous power, and we should say
“MIGHTY Angels.” How is this to be done? By Antimereia. By using a
noun instead of an adjective, and saying “Angels of might.”

It is difficult to say how this should be dealt with in translation so as
to render it idiomatically, and yet apprise the reader of the correct
emphasis.
Neither the Authorized nor the Revised Version follows any fixed
rule. Sometimes the noun is translated literally, and sometimes it is
rendered as an adjective.

It is important, however, that the reader (especially the public
reader) should know where the emphasis is required.

It should be observed, however, that the second noun (i.e., the
noun in the genitive case) is not always used instead of an adjective.

The word “of” takes many different meanings; and it is important
that each should be accurately defined and determined.

As this, however, does not belong strictly to the figure Antimereia,
we have given an outline of the whole subject in the Appendix. (See
Appendix B “On the usuage of the Genitive case.”)

The following are examples of Antimereia, where a noun in
regimen is used instead of an adjective:-

Exo. 34:7.-“The iniquity of the fathers”: {6., when the iniquity wrought
by the children is the same in character, it will he punished in the
same way.

2Ki. 24:3.-“The sins of Manasseh”: {6., the sins like Manasseh’s, as is
explained by the next sentence, “according to all that he did.”

2Ch. 24:6; 2Ch. 24:9.-“The collection of Moses”: i.e., like that ordered
by Moses. The italics of the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] are put in to fill out the sense.
Job. 8:6.-“The home of thy righteousness”: i.e., thy righteous home.
Psa. 2:6.-“Upon Zion, the mount of my holiness”: i.e., my holy
mountain. See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.]

Psa. 60:9 (11).-“Who will bring me into the city of strength”: i.e., the
strong city, with emphasis on strong. See 2Sa. 11:1; 2Sa. 12:26. See
also under /гопу.

Ezr. 8:18.-“A man of understanding”: i.e., a wise and prudent man.
Psa. 23:2.-“Pastures of tender grass”: i.e., green pastures.

Psa. 23:2.-“Waters of quietness”: i.e., peaceful streams.

Psa. 31:2 (3).-“Be to me for a rock of strength, for a house of bulwarks
to save me”: i.e., a strong rock, and a fortified house, or fortress.

Psa. 140:11 (12).-“Will not a man of tongue (i.e., a braggart; P.B.V.
[Note: .B.V. The Prayer Book Version of the Psalms (from Coverdale’s
Bible).] , a man full of words; A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , an evil speaker) be
established in the earth: evil will hunt the man of violence ({6., the
violent man) to overthrow him.”

Psa. 150:1.-“The firmament of his power”: i.e., his strong firmament.
Pro. 10:15.-“City of his strength”: i.e., his strong city.

Pro. 29:8.-“Men of scorning”: i.e., scoffers (A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ‚ “scornul men”).
Isa. 1:10.-“Ye rulers of Sodom ... ye people of Gomorrah”: {6., rulers
and a people who acted as those of Sodom and Gomorrah did.

Isa. 28:1 (2).-“Crown of pride”: i.e., Pride’s crown.

Isa. 30:21.-“The graven images of thy silver”: i.e., thy silver graven
images.

Isa. 33:21.-“Broad of spaces”: i.e., spacious or broad streams. (See
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] margin).

Isa. 51:20.-“Like a wild bull of a net”: i.e., a netted wild oryx.

Isa. 52:1.-“The city of holiness”: i.e., the holy city.

Isa. 54:9.-“For this is the waters of Noah unto me”: {6., Noah’s flood,
as we Call it. The times and circumstances referred to are to be like the
days of Noah. The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] supply “as.”
Jer. 12:10.-“My portion of desire”: i.e., my desired portion.

Jer. 22:19.-‘The burial of an ass”: {6., ап ass’s funeral!

Jer. 51:3.-“A sleep of perpetuity”: {.Θ., a perpetual sleep.

Hab. 1:8.-“The wolves of evening”: i.e., evening wolves. See also Jer.
5:6; Zep. 3:3; and the explanation in Psa. 104:20-21.

Mat. 5:22.-“The gehenna of the fire”: the fiery or burning Gehenna: or,
the fiery Hinnom-vale.

Mat. 15:26.-“The bread of the children”: i.e., -the children’s own bread,
with emphasis on the children.

Mat. 19:28.-“The throne of His glory”: i.e., His glorious throne, with
emphasis on glorious. There are no articles in the Greek.

Mar. 11:22.-“Have faith of God”: i.e., Divine or strong faith. Compare
Jam. 2:1 and 1Pe. 2:19.

Luk. 1:17.-The spirit and power of Elias”: i.e., with Elijah’s spirit and
power.

Luk. 6:12.-“Continued all night in the prayer of God”: {6., in instant
earnest prayer.

Luk. 16:8.-“The steward of injustice”: {6., the unjust steward.
Luk. 18:6.-“Hear what the judge of injustice saith’: /е., the unjust
judge, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.]
Joh. 10:23.-“And Jesus walked in the porch of Solomon”: i.e., in the
porch built like that of Solomon, and in the same place, etc. For
Solomon’s porch was burnt with the Temple by Nebuchadnezzar.
Rom. 1:26.-“Lusts of dishonour”: i.e., A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “vile passions.”
Rom. 6:4.-“In newness of life”: i.e., a life-long newness.
Rom. 7:5.-“Motions (or passions, margin) of sins”: i.e., sinful passions:
or, sins’ passions; i.e., the passions of the various sins set in motion
by the Law.
Rom. 7:24.-“Who shall deliver me from the body of this death?”: i.e.,
this dying body or this mortal body.
Rom. 8:6-7.-“Mind of the spirit? and “mind of the flesh” rendered
“spiritually minded” and “carnally minded.”

This is almost stronger than the mere characterizing of the spirit or
the flesh. It denotes the ruling principle which governs and controls the
mind: the one being the old nature; and the other, the new.
2Со. 4:2.-“The hidden things of dishonesty”: i.e., the shameful secret
things.

Eph. 2:3.-“Fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind”: i.e.,
coarse fleshly lusts, and refined mental lusts; for there is “no
difference” between these in God’s sight, though there may be in
man’s.

Eph. 4:22.-“Lusts of deceit’: i.e., deceitful lusts; or lusts which
deceive, and are the instruments of deceit.

Verse 24: “Righteousness and holiness of truth: ie., true
righteousness and holiness, as contrasted with Adam (Gen. 1:27) with
the emphasis on true.

Eph. 6:12.-“Against the spiritual things of wickedness”: i.e., wicked
spirits. Here we have two forms of Antimereia, viz., the Ant. of the
adjective “spiritual’ for spiritual powers, or spirits, and the Ant. of the
noun, “of wickedness,” for their origin or character.

Php. 3:21.-“Who shall change the body of our humiliation ({6., our
corruptible body) that it may be fashioned like unto His body of glory
(i.e., his glorious body): with emphasis on corruptible and glorious.
Col. 1:11.-“According to the power of his glory”: i.e., His glorious
power.
Col. 1:13.-“Who hath translated us into the Kingdom of the Son of His
love”: i.e., of His beloved Son.

Col. 1:22.-“The body of his flesh”: i.e., his fleshly body.

Col. 2:18.-“The mind of his flesh”: i.e, as in AV. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , his
fleshly mind.

Col. 3:14.-“Bond of perfectness”: i.e., a perfect bond.
2Th. 1:7.-“The angels of His power”: i.e., His mighty angels, with great
emphasis on “mighty.” (See margin).

2Th. 2:3.-“The man of sin”: i.e., the man characterized by sin, the
sinful or wicked man, with the emphasis on “sinful.” “The son of
perdition.” (See under Metonomy, for the use of the word “son.”)

Heb. 9:10.-“Which stood only in meats and drinks and divers
washings (βαππισμοῖς, baptisms) and (or even) ordinances of the
flesh, put upon them until the time of setting things right”: i.e.,
Baptisms whose character was fleshly, having effect only on the flesh,
and thus opposite to that baptism of the Spirit with which Christ
baptises the members of His Body.

Heb. 12:9.-“Fathers of our flesh”: i.e., human or natural fathers, in
contrast with the Heavenly Father and giver of our spirits.

Jam. 1:25.-“A hearer of forgetfulness”: {6., as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 16111], a
forgetful hearer: with emphasis on “forgetful.”

Jam. 2:4.-“Judges of evil thoughts”: i.e., evil-thinking judges.

Jam. 3:13.-“Meekness of wisdom”: i.e., wise meekness.

1Pe. 1:2.-“Sanctification of [the] Spirit”: i.e., spiritual sanctification, or
perhaps it may be the Genitive of Origin, and mean that sanctification
of which the Spirit is the author and source.
2Pe. 2:1.-“Heresies of perdition”: i.e., destructive heresies or sects.
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] renders it “damnable heresies.”
2Pe. 2:16.-“With the voice of a man”: which the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
correctly renders man’s voice; i.e., a human being’s voice in contrast
to animal.
1Jn. 1:1.-“The Word of life”: {6., the living Word. Accordingly, it is
added in the next verse, “and the life (viz., of the Word) was
manifested.”
Jud. 1:11.-“The way of Cain ... the error of Balaam ... the gainsaying
of Korah”: i.e., the way, the error, and gainsaying characterized like
those of Cain, Balaam, and Korah.
Jud. 1:18.-Walking “after their own lusts of ungodliness”: {6., as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , “ungodly lusts.”
The Divine Names form a special class by themselves.
The Names of God (E/), God (Elohim), Lord (Jehovah) are
sometimes used, in regimen, as adjectives, denoting Divine; or that
which is the greatest, highest, mightiest, most glorious, or beautiful.
Gen. 6:1.-“The sons of God”: i.e., wondrous, mighty, supernatural
beings. Hence, used always of angels in the Old Testament.

See every other occurrence:- Job. 1:2; Job. 2:6; Job. 38:7. Psa.
29:1; Psa. 89:6. Dan. 3:25. In Gen. 6:2, Codex A of the Septuagint
reads ἄγγελοι τοῦ θεοῦ, angels of God. These are the fallen angels
referred to as “in-prison” (2Pe. 2:4-9. Jud. 1:6-7, and 1Pe. 3:18-20.
Gen. 23:6.-“А prince of God”: i.e., a mighty prince.

Gen. 30:8.-“Wrestlings of God”: i.e., great wrestlings.

Exo. 9:28.-“Voices of God”: i.e., loud and powerful voices, or
thunderings. Compare 1Sa. 14:15.

2Ch. 20:29.-“A fear of God”: {6., a great fear.

2Ch. 28:13.-“A trespass of Jehovah”: {6., a terrible sin.

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] entirely loses the sense of this verse, which
should be thus rendered: “Ye shall not bring in the captives hither; for
ye propose that which will bring upon us a trespass of Jehovah (i.e., a
trespass of the greatest magnitude) to add to our sin and to our guilt;
for abundant is the guilt we have and the fierceness of anger on
Israel.”
Job. 4:9.-A blast of Eloah”: a vehement blast.
Psa. 36:6 (7); 68:15 (16), etc.-“Mountains of God”: i.e., the loftiest
mountains.
Psa. 80:10 (11).-“Cedars of God”: i.e., the loftiest cedars.
Psa. 104:16.-“Trees of Jehovah”: i.e., the loftiest trees.
Son. 8:6.-“Flames of Jehovah”: ᾖθ., vehement flames. The verse
should be rendered:

“For love is strong as death:

Affection is inexorable as Sheol:

Its flames are flames of fire:

The flames of Jehovah.”* [Note: See Ginsburg’s

Introduction, page 386.]

Jer. 2:31.-Here the last syllable of the word “darkness,” έᾶ, is an
abbreviation of Jehovah; and the words should be rendered:

“Have | been a wilderness to Israel.
Is the land the darkness of Jah?” i.e., utter darkness.
[Note: Ditto, page 384.]
Eze. 28:13; Eze. 31:8-9.-“Garden of God”: i.e., the Divine, beautiful or
wonderful garden.

The Name of God is used in the same way in the dative case.
Rth. 2:20.-“Blessed be he to the Lord”: i.e., divinely blessed with all
things. Rth. 3:10, “Blessed be thou to the Lord.”

Isa. 28:2. Here, it is literally:
“Behold, a mighty and strong one to Adonai”: i.e.,
“Behold, a mighty one, immensely strong-
As astorm of hail, a destructive storm;
As a flood of mighty waters overflowing
Hath he cast [Ephraim] down to the earth with his hand.”
Jon. 3:3.-“A city great to God”: i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , an exceeding
great city.
Act. 7:20.-Moses was “fair to God”: i.e., Divinely beautiful.
2Co. 10:4.-“For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty
to God” (so A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] margin): i.e., immensely powerful.
The word “sons” or “children” with a noun (in regimen) is used
idiomatically:-

The word “son,” when qualified by another noun, denotes the
nature and character of the person or persons so named, and even
their source and origin: e.g., “sons of Belial” (margin, naughty men).
Deu. 13:13. Jdg. 19:22.

“Sons of valour” (2Sa. 2:7. 1Ki. 1:52. Deu. 3:18): /е., brave
men.

“Sons of the pledges”: i.e., hostages (2Ki. 14:14).

“Son of oil” (Isa. 5:1, marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ) beautifully
rendered “in a very fruitful hill.”

“Sons of light” (Luk. 16:8): ie., men illuminated from above
(Joh. 12:36. 1Th. 5:5. Eph. 5:8).
“Children of the devil” (1Jn. 3:10. Act. 13:10).
“Children of wrath” (Eph. 2:2).
“Children of this world” (Luk. 20:34): ie, men who are
characterized by living for this present age or life.
“Children of the resurrection” (Luk. 20:36): i.e., raised from the
dead.
“Children of disobedience”: i.e., disobedient children (Eph.
2:2).
“Children of obedience”: i.e., obedient children (1Ре. 1:14).
Heb. 10:39 must be explained by this usage, if sense is to be made of
the words, the difficulty of which is seen in the R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] margin: “But we are not [children of unbelief]
of drawing back unto destruction of the soul ({6., unbelievers), but
[children] of faith (i.e., believers) unto the gaining of it.”

So the expression “son of man,” “sons of men,” “children of men”
is a Hebrew idiom for a human being as distinct from a beast on the
one hand and from God or angelic beings on the other (Gen. 11:5,
etc.).
In like manner the “sons of God” in the New Testament are those
who partake of the New, Divine, or spiritual nature (2Pe. 1:4), whether
angels or men, as distinct from the beasts and from mere human
beings.

Beni Ha-Elohim, the sons of God, is used seven times in the Old
Testament for angels (see above).
Once it is used of Restored Israel (Hos. 1:10) in Heb. 2:1, but here
the expression is different, Beni El-hai.

In the singular with both articles it is used of Christ.

“The Son of God” is that blessed one who is perfect man and
perfect God, perfectly human as “the Son of man” (also with both
articles) and perfectly Divine as “the Son of God.”

6. Noun (governing) for Adjective
When the first noun (instead of the second noun, in regimen) is
changed, and used instead of the adjective, the figure is called
Hypallage. See below.
7. The former of Two Nouns (both in regimen) used for an
Adjective

When two nouns are both of them in regimen, and only one of them is
used for the adjective, sometimes it is the former* [Note: Sometimes it
is the latter that is put for the adjective. (See No. 8 below). Sometimes
they are both of them different forms of the genitive case, and one of
them is in regimen to the other: i.e., depends upon the other. For

examples of this, see Appendix B.] :

(a) Where the former of the two nouns (both in regimen) is used for an
adjective, and is to receive the emphasis.

Gen. 17:5.-“A father of a multitude of nations”: i.e., of many nations

(as in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our

English Bible, 1611.] ), with the emphasis on many, as is explained in

Rom. 4:17.

Gen. 45:22.-“Changes of raiment.”

Act. 7:30.-“In a flame of a fire of a bush”: i.e., in a flame of a burning

bush.

Rom. 5:2.-“And rejoice in hope of the glory of God”: {6., and rejoice in

God’s glorious hope.

Rom. 8:2.-“The law of the spirit of life”: i.e., the spiritual law of life.

2Со. 4:6.-“The knowledge of the glory of God”: i.e., the knowledge of

the glorious God.

Eph. 1:6.-“To the praise of the glory of His grace”: i.e., of His glorious

grace.

Tit. 2:13.-“The appearing of the glory of our great God and Saviour”:
ie., the glorious appearing of the great God, even our Saviour Jesus
Christ.

Rev. 18:3.-“The wine of the wrath of her fornication”: i.e., the furious
wine, etc.

8. The /atter of Two Nouns (both in regimen) used for an Adjective
Gen. 9:5.-“At the hand of a man of his brother”: i.e., at the hand of his
fellow or brother man. There is no “every” expressed in the Hebrew.
Rom. 3:23.-“For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God”:
ie., of God’s glory.

Rom. 8:3.-“In likeness of flesh of sin”: i.e., sinful flesh’s likeness.

Col. 1:11.-“According to the power of the glory of Him”: i.e., according

to His glorious power.

Col. 1:13.-“And hath translated us into the kingdom of the son of His

love”: {6., His beloved Son’s kingdom. See Mat. 3:17.

9. One of two Nouns in the same case (and not in regimen) used
for an Adjective

When two nouns in the same case are united by a conjunction, one of
them (generally the latter) is used as a very emphatic adjective, e.g.,
Act. 14:13 : “They brought oxen and garlands,” means “They brought
oxen, yes, and they were garlanded too!” This figure is called
Hendiadys, under which the reader will find many examples.
10. Noun (in regimen) for superlative of Adjective

When the latter noun is the genitive plural of the former noun e.g.,
King of Kings, Holy of Holies, it is put instead of, and to emphasise,
the superlative degree of the adjective. As this is a species of
Polyptoton, we have put the examples under that figure (q.v. [Νοίε:
Which see_] ).

Antiptosis; or, Exchange of Cases

Exchange of one case for another
Anr-tip-tqpr-sis (ἀντίππωσις), from ἀντί (anti), against or instead of; and
TITWOIC (pt@sis), a falling; in grammar an inflection or a case of a noun
in declension; from πίττειν (piptein), to fall.

The figure is so called, because one case is put instead of another
case. Especially when the absolute is put for the construct: i.e., where
the governing noun is changed for the noun in regimen

Antiptosis is to be distinguished from Нурайаде. In Hypallage, the
two words and cases are interchanged, and the sense and relation of
the two reversed; while in Antiptosis the governing noun becomes the
adjective instead of the noun in regimen.

N.B.-When the noun in regimen is used instead of an adjective, it
is a form of Antimereia (see above).

Exo. 19:6.-“A kingdom of priests”: i.e., a royal priesthood. In 1Pe. 2:9,
this is put literally, instead of (as here) by Antiptosis.

Psa. 1:1.-“O the blessedness or happinesses of the man”: i.e., the
happy or blessed man.

Mat. 13:5.-“No depth of earth”: /.e., no deep earth.

Luk. 1:48.-“The low estate of his handmaiden”: i.e., his humiliated
bondmaid: referring to the humiliation to which she had to be subject.
If even Joseph could suspect her, however sorrowfully and sadly, what
would others do? What, in fact, in Jewish teaching still!

Luk. 5:9.-“At the haul of the fish”: i.e., the fish of the capture; or, the
captured fishes.

Rom. 2:4.-“The good thing (τὸ χρηστόν, to chreeston) of God”: i.e.,
the goodness of God. See under Antimereia of the adjective.

Rom. 5:17.-“The abundance of the grace”: i.e., the abounding grace.
1Co. 1:17.-“Not with wisdom of speech”: i.e., not with learned or
eloquent language.

1Со. 1:21.-“The folly of preaching”: i.e., foolish (as the wise Gentiles
ironically called it) preaching.

1Со. 14:12.-"So do ye also, since as ye are zealous of spirits.” Here,
the noun “spirits” is used for the adjective spiritual (πνευμάτων,
рпеитайфл for πνευματικῶν, pneumatikebn). Both the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] insert the word “gifts” in
italics. See under Metonymy.

2Co. 8:8.-“The genuineness of your love”: i.e., your genuine love.

Gal. 3:14.-‘The promise of the Spirit’: i.e., the promised Spirit.
Gal. 4:4.-“The fulness of the time”: {6., the full or completed time.
Eph. 1:7.-“The riches of his grace.” By Enallage this would be
gracious riches, but it means more than this. Grace is the subject, and
it is the exceeding wealth of this wondrous grace which has abounded
toward those who are “accepted in the Beloved.”

By Antiptosis the one is put for the other, and the noun “riches” is
put for the adjective: i.e., His exceeding rich grace. So also
Eph. 1:18.-“The riches of his glory’ denotes the exceeding rich glory
of His inheritance in the saints.
Eph. 4:29.-“Building up or edifying of the need.” The A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
renders this-“Use of edifying;” but it is the word “use” (or need) which
is in the genitive case, and not the word “edifying.” The R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] renders it “Edifying as the need may be.”

But by the figure of Antiptosis (which neither Version perceived),
the former noun is used for the adjective, instead of the latter in the
genitive case.

The meaning, therefore, is “that which is good for edifying use.”
Php. 4:5.-“The immutability of his counsel”: i.e., his immutable
counsel.
Col. 1:27.-“The riches of the glory”: i.e., His wondrously rich glory, in
the mystery revealed to and through Paul.
1Th. 1:3.-“Work of faith,” “labour of love,” and “patience of hope.”

We have given these under the genitive of origin (see Appendix B):
i.e., work which proceeds from faith, labour which proceeds from love,
and patience that proceeds from hope.

The genitive, however, may be, by Antimereia, faithful service,
loving labour, and hopeful patience.

But, if the figure is Antiptosis, then it means a working faith (i.e., a
faith which is manifested by its works), a laborious love, and patient
hope. Probably all three interpretations are correct!

Heb. 6:17.-“The immutability of his counsel”: i.e., His unchangeable
counsel.”

Heb. 9:15.-“The promise of the eternal inheritance”: {6., the promised
eternal inheritance.

1Pe. 3:20.-“The longsuffering of God”: i.e., the longsuffering God.

There are other exchanges of case beside that of the absolute for
the construct. But these are for the most part peculiar to Greek usage.
Luk. 1:55.-“As he spake to (πρός) our fathers, to Abraham (τῷ
Αβραάμ), and to his seed (τῷ).” Here, the fathers is in the Accusative
because more general; while Abraham, etc, is in the Dative, because
more personal
Heb. 10:5.-“A body hast thou prepared me (Dat. μοί (moi), for me).”

It is a question whether the Dative is used, by Antiptosis, for the

Accusative; to show that, while Christ’s human body was prepared for
Him, yet He was also constituted a servant for ever according to Exo.
21:6 and Deu. 15:17. This is the sense in Psa. 40:6 (7), and σῶμα
(sqma), body, was used of slaves (Rev. 18:13), just as we use
“hands” of labourers.
Rev. 1:5-6.-“And from Jesus Christ (Gen. [Νοίε: en. The Genitive
Case_] ), the faithful witness (Nom. [Note: om. The Nominative Case.]
), and the first begotten (Nom. [Note: om. The Nominative Case.] )
from the dead ... to him (Dat.) that loved us ... and made us (Nom.
[Note: om. The Nominative Case.] ) kings, etc., to him (Dat.).” All this
change of cases seems to overwhelm us with the idea of the
impossibility of expressing the praise and glory which should be
ascribed to Jesus Christ.

See also (in the Greek) Rev. 3:12; Rev. 18:13.
Heterosis; or, Exchange of Accidence
Exchange of one Voice, Mood, Tense, Person, Number, Degree, or
Gender, for another
Hetr-e-rqpr-sis, ἕτερος (heteros), another, different. It 15 the name given
to that form of Enallage which consists of an exchange, not of actual

parts of speech, but of the accidence of a part of speech.

It includes an exchange of one Form of the Verb for another (e.g.,
intransitive for transitive); one Mood or Tense for another; one Person
for another; one Degree of comparison for another; one Number or
Gender for another.

When the exchange is of one Case for another, it has a separate
name-Antiptqsis (see above), and when the exchange is of one Part
of Speech for another, it is called Antimereia (see above).

The following are the various forms of Heterosis.-

HETEROSIS.
|. Of FORMS and VOICES.
1. Intransitive for Transitive.
2. Active for Passive.
3. Middle for Passive.
Il. Of Moods.
1. Indicative for Subjunctive.
2. Subjunctive for Indicative.
3. Imperative for Indicative.
4. Imperative for Subjunctive.
5. Infinitive for Indicative.
6. Infinitive for Imperative.
Ill. Of Tenses.
1. Past for Present.
2. Past for Future.
3. Aorist (Indefinite) for Past.

4. Aorist (Indefinite) for Present.

5. Present for Past.

6. Present for Future.

7. Present for Paulo post futurum (i.e., a little after [Future).
8. Future for Past.

9. Future for Present.

10. Future for Imperative.
IV. Of Persons.
1. First Person for Third.
2. Second for Third.
3. Third for First or Second.
4. Plural for Singular.
5. Singular for Plural.
V. Of Adjectives (Degree) and Adverbs.
1. Positive for Comparative.
2. Positive for Superlative.
3. Comparative for Positive.
4. Comparative for Superlative.
5. Superlative for Comparative.
VI. Of Nouns (Number), Adjectives, and Pronouns.
1. Singular for Plural.
2. Plural for Singular.
3. Plural for Indefinite Number or one of many.
ΝΙ. Of Gender.
1. Masculine for Feminine.
2. Masculine for Neuter.
3. Feminine for Neuter.
4. Neuter for Masculine or Feminine.
Heterosis of the Verb
|. Of Forms and Voices
1. Intransitive for Transitive
Mat. 5:29.-“If thy right eye offend thee”: (σκανδαλίζω, skandalizq), to
make to stumble: i.e., make thee stumble. So Mat. 18:6. 1Co. 8:13.
Mat. 5:45.-“He maketh his sun to rise” (ἀνατέλλω, anatellq), to rise
up.

1Co. 2:2.-“| determined not to know anything among you”: i.e., to
make known, preach.

1Со. 3:6.-“God gave the increase,” and verse 7: “God that giveth the
increase.” So 2Co. 9:10. In all other places the verb αὐξάνω
(аихапф), to increase, is intransitive.

1Co. 13:12.-“Then shall | know, even as | also am known”: {6., | shall
be made to know or taught.

2Co. 2:14.-“Now, thanks be to the God that always causeth us to
triumph.” Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] recognises the figure of exchange; as also
in

2Со. 9:8.-“God is able to make all grace abound in you.”

Gal. 4:9.-“But now after that ye have known God, or rather are known
of God”: {6., been made to know, or been instructed by God.

Eph. 1:8.-“According to the riches (or wealth) of His grace which
(grace) he hath made to overflow into us.”

2Ti. 2:19.-“The Lord knoweth them that are his”: i.e., the Lord maketh
known who are His; as in Num. 16:5.

2. Active for Passive
1Pe. 2:6.-“Wherefore also it is contained in the Scriptures,” Jit, it
contains: i.e., there is a passage in the Scripture.

3. Middle for Passive
Luk. 2:5.-“To be taxed with Mary”: /it., to enrol himself.
1Со. 10:2.-“And were all baptized into Moses”: lit, baptized
themselves.

Il. Heterosis of Moods

1. Indicative for Subjunctive

As the Hebrew language has no subjunctive mood, the indicative is
often put instead of that mood; and this is done in the New Testament,
as well as in the Old Testament, inasmuch as, though the language is
Greek, the thoughts and idioms are Hebrew.
1Co. 15:12.-“Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead,
how say some among you,” etc.: i.e., how is it that some among you
say.

Verse 35. “But some men wilt say”: /.e., may say.

Verse 50. “Neither doth corruption inherit incorruption”: i.e., neither
can corruption, etc.

2. Subjunctive for Indicative

Mat. 11:6.-“Blessed is he who may not be made to stumble”: i.e., who
is not made to stumble or seeth nothing to stumble at in me.
Joh. 15:8.-“By this is my Father glorified, that ye may bear much fruit”:
ie., that ye bear or when ye bear, etc.
1Co. 6:4.-“If, then, ye may have matters of judgment” (cases for the
judge): i.e., if ye have.
Jam. 4:13.-“To-day or to-morrow we may go into such a city”: i.e., we
will go.

Verse 15: “If the Lord should will, and we should live”: i.e., if He
willeth, and we live.
Some Christians say, “If the Lord should tarry;” not perceiving that
He may tarry, and yet not will that we should live, or do this or that.
Tarrying and willing are two very different things.
3. Imperative for Indicative
Gen. 20:7.-“For he (Abraham) is a prophet, and let him pray for thee”:
ie., (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] ), he shall pray for thee.
Gen. 42:18.-“This do ye and live”: i.e., and ye shall live.
Gen. 45:18.-‘I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and eat ye
the fat of the land”: {6., ye shall eat (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ).
Deu. 32:50.-And be gathered unto thy people”: i.e., thou shalt be
gathered.
Psa. 22:8 (9).-“Roll thyself on, or trust thou in the Lord.”

Whatever part of the verb aé (σφ!) may be, it must be-put for the
indicative, for it is so rendered in the Septuagint (“He trusted in the
Lord”), and is so quoted in the New Testament (Mat. 27:43).

Psa. 37:27.-“Depart from evil and do good: and dwell for evermore”:
ie., thou shalt dwell.
Pro. 3:4.-“So shalt thou find favour.”
Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] recognizes the figure, for the Heb. is imperative,
“find.” But the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] misses it in 4:4. “Keep my commandments
and live”: i.e., and thou shalt live.

Rom. 5:1.-“Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with
God.”

Here the reading, according to the R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] and the Textual critics, should be ἔχωμεν (imperative),
instead of ἔχομεν (indicative), as in the T.R. and A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] Alford,
though he recognizes the reading, and puts it in the text, yet bows to
the overwhelming evidence of the sense, and the context, and
contends for the Indicative. The simple solution is that this is one of
the instances, if the critics are right, in which the Imperative is used for
the Indicative, and though the text may say “let us have,” the meaning
is “we have.”
1Со. 16:22.-‘If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be
Anathema Maran-atha”: i.e., he is or will be Anathema (or accursed)
when the Lord shall come.
In prophetic utterances the future indicative is very often declared
by the imperative; for “Whatsoever the Lord willeth, that doeth he.”
Isa. 8:10.-“Take counsel together ... speak the word”: i.e., ye shall
take counsel together, and it will come to naught: and ye shall speak
the word, but it will not stand.” So also 29:9; 37:30; 54:1, etc.
Joh. 2:19.-“Destroy this temple.” This was not a command for the
Jews to destroy Him, but a prophesy that they would do so. When
they perverted His words, they did not do so by taking the figure
literally, but by declaring that He said “I will destroy this temple.”
Gal. 6:2.-“And so fulfil (/.e., so ye will fulfil) the law of Christ.”
Jam. 5:1.-“Weep and howl:” i.e., ye shall weep and howl.

4. Imperative for Subjunctive

Num. 24:21.-“Strong be thy dwelling place, and build in the flint-rock
thy nest. Nevertheless”: i.e., thou mayest put, but,” etc. A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] :
“Thou puttest” (Ind. [Note: The Indicative Mood.] ), but the sense is
subjunctive.
Psa. 4:4 (5).-“Stand in awe, and sin not”: i.e., if ye stand in awe ye will
not sin.

Nah. 3:14.-Here, all the imperative commands are conditional
declarations, as is shown by verse 15: i.e., the people might do all
these things, nevertheless, it would be all in vain.

Luk. 10:28.-“This do, and thou shalt live”: /.e., if thou do this. Hence
the Imperative very often implies only permission:-
2Sa. 18:23.-“Run”: i.e., thou mayest run.
1К!. 22:22.-“Со forth, and do 5ο”: i.e., thou mayest go, and do it.
2Ki. 2:17.-“Send”: i.e., ye may send.
Mat. 8:32.-“Со”: i.e., ye may go.
1Co. 7:15.-“Let him depart”: i.e., he may depart.
1Co. 11:6.-“Let her also be shorn”: i.e., she may be shorn.

5. Infinitive for Indicative
Gen. 8:5.-“And the waters were in going and returning”: i.e., as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] , decreased continually.
Exo. 8:15 (11).-“But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, and to
harden his heart, and hearkened not unto them”: i.e., hardening of his
heart followed, or took place.
2Sa. 3:18.-“By the hand of my servant David to save my people
Israel”: i.e., | shall save.
1Ki. 22:30 and 2Ch. 18:29.-“And the king of Israel said unto
Jehoshaphat: To disguise myself and to enter into the battle”: | will
disguise myself; or as in margin [when he was] to disguise, etc.

2Ch. 31:10.-“Since the People began to bring the offerings into the
House of the Lord, to eat, to be satisfied, and to have left plenty”: /.е.,
we have eaten, and had enough, and have left plenty.

Psa. 8:1 (2).-“Who to set thy glory above the heavens”: who hast set.
The Targum and the Syriac have the Indicative (Num. 27:20).* [Note:
See the note in Dr. Ginsburg’s edition of the Hebrew Bible.]

Psa. 32:9.-“Not to understand”: {6., having no understanding.

Psa. 77:1 (2).-“Even unto God with my voice, and to hear me”: i.e.,
and He gave ear to me, or He will hear me; or, by Ellipsis, and He [will
condescend] to hear me.

Pro. 12:6.-“The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood”: i.e., lie
in wait.

Isa. 5:5.-Here, the Infinitive is correctly rendered by the Indicative
future: “I will take away, and break down,” etc.

Isa. 38:16.-“So wilt thou recover me, and to make me to live”: i.e., and
vivify me, or preserve my life.

Isa. 49:7.-“To him to despise in soul”: i.e., to him who is despised by
man.

Jer. 7:9.-“Will ye to steal, to murder,” etc. Some interpret the letter а
(He) as interogative, but others as intensive, Will ye steal, etc. (with
emphasis on the verbs).

Jer. 14:5.-“Yea, the hind also calved in the field, and to forsake it”: i.e.,
and forsook it, because there was no grass; or, the sense may be
supplied by Ellipsis, and [was obliged] to forsake it, etc.

Eze. 1:14.-“And the living creatures to run and to return”: i.e., ran and
returned.

Eze. 11:7.-“To bring you forth”: i.e., | will bring you forth. “I shall bring”
is actually the reading according to the Sevir, and indeed it is the
Textual reading in some MSS., as well as the Editio princeps of the
Hebrew Bible (Soncino, 1488), and the marginal reading of the first
edition of the Rabbinic Bible by Felix Pratensis (Venice, 1517), as may
be seen from the note in Dr. Ginsburg’s Edition of the Hebrew Bible.
Hab. 2:15.-“To make him drunk”: /е., and makest him drunken also
(as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] ).
6. Infinitive for Imperative
Exo. 20:8.-“To remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy”: ie.,
remember thou. So Deu. 5:12.
Luk. 9:3.-“Neither to have two coats”: {6., neither have ye.
Rom. 12:15.-“To rejoice with them that rejoice”: i.e., rejoice ye. See
under Homeeoteleuton.
Php. 3:16.-“To walk by the same rule”: i.e., let us walk, or walk ye.

Other examples may be seen in Jos. 1:13. Job. 32:10 (11). Psa.

17:5; Psa. 22:8 (9). Isa. 32:11. Jer. 2:2.

Ill. Heterosis of the Tenses
As the Hebrew verb has only two principal tenses, the past and the
future, these two with the participles supply all the other tenses.
Hence, in the New Testament, where the thought and idiom are
Hebrew, though the tenses are Greek they consequently have all the
variety which these tenses have in Hebrew.

1. The Past for the Present
The Past not only serves to express what is finished or past, but what
is present: regarding it, and also the future, as actually done. The past
tense expresses what is either imperfect or perfect, or what is a gentle
imperative, or a fixed determination, or a continuation of the action or
state. The exact sense can be known only from the context.
Gen. 4:1.-“I have gotten a man from the Lord”: i.e., | have got, or,
possess.

Verse 9: “I have not known”: i.e. (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ), | know not, or, |
do not know.

Gen. 23:11; Gen. 23:13.-“I have given thee the field”: {6., | give to
thee the field.
Gen. 32:10 (11).-“I have been unworthy of all the mercies”: i.e., | am
unworthy.

2Sa. 1:5.-“How hast thou known ({6., how dost thou know) that Saul
and Jonathan his son are dead?”

2Ki. 3:11.-“Here is Elisha, son of Shaphat, who hath poured ({6.,
poureth) water on the hands of Elijah.” Elijah’s servant is described by
part of his service (this is by the figure of Synecdoche (q.v. [Note:
Which see_] ).

Psa. 1:1.-“O the happiness of that one who hath not walked (i.e., doth
not (and never did) walk),” etc.

Psa. 14:1.-“The fool hath said ({6., sayeth) in his heart, There is no
God.” If this Psalm refers to Nabal (a foo/), we may render it: “Nabal
said” or “A fool sayeth.”

Psa. 25:2.-“My God, in thee | have trusted:” {6., do | trust. So Psa.
31:1 (2). Pro. 17:5; and in many other places: the sense being, “I have
trusted, and still do trust, in Thee.”

Psa. 31:6.-“Thou hast delivered (i.e., thou deliverest) me, О Jehovah.”
Isa. 9:2 (1).-“The People who walk in darkness have seen (i.e., see) а
great light.”
Joh. 1:4.-“In him was (i.e., is) life, and the life was (i.e., is) the light of
men.”

Verse 15: “This was (i.e., is) he of whom | spake.”
Joh. 3:16.-“God so loved (i.e., loveth) the world, that he gave ({6.,
giveth) his only begotten Son.”
Joh. 9:36.-“Who is he, Lord, that | shall have believed (i.e., may
believe) on him.”
Joh. 20:17.-“Hold me not, for | have not yet ascended”: i.e., | do not
yet ascend, or am not yet ascended.
Act. 12:14.-Rhoda “told Peter to be standing before the porch”: i.e.,
how Peter is standing.
Rom. 5:2.-“This grace wherein ye have stood”: i.e., and continue to
stand.
1Со. 1:10.-“In whom we have hoped (and continue to hope).”
Heb. 10:11.-“And every high priest stood (i.e., standeth) daily” (as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] ).
Jam. 1:24.-“He beheld himself, and has gone away”: ie., he
beholdeth himself, and goeth his way.
1Jn. 3:6.-“Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him”:
ie., seeth Him not, neither knoweth Him.

Other examples may be seen in Joh. 5:45; Joh. 11:27; Joh. 16:27.
1Ti. 4:10; 1Ti. 5:5.

2. The Past for the Future

This is put when the speaker views the action as being as good as
done. This is very common in the Divine prophetic utterances: where,
though the sense is literally future, it is regarded and spoken of as
though it were already accomplished in the Divine purpose and
determination: the figure is to show the absolute certainty of the things
spoken of.
Gen. 45:9-10.-“Haste ye and go up to my father, then ye have said
(i.e., will say) to him ... and thou hast dwelt (i.e., wilt dwell) in the land
of Goshen.”

Exo. 17:4.-“They have stoned me”: i.e., they will stone me.

1Sa. 2:31.-“Lo, the days are coming, and | have cut off thine arm”: i.e.,
shall cut off, etc.

1Sa. 10:2.-“Thou hast found”: i.e., wilt find.

1Sa. 6:7-8.-“And ye have bound (i.e., will bind),” etc.

Job. 19:27.-“And mine eyes have beheld?” (i.e., will have seen).

Psa. 23:5.-“Thou hast anointed”: {.6., wilt anoint.

Psa. 107:42.-“And all iniquity hath shut ({6., will have shut) her
mouth.”

Pro. 1:22.-“The scorners have delighted (i.e., will delight) in their
scorning.”

Pro. 11:7; Pro. 11:21.-“The hope of the unjust men hath perished”:
ie., will perish: but just one’s seed hath escaped: {6., will escape.

Pro. 12:21.-“And the wicked have been (i-e., will be) full of evil.”
Jer. 21:9.-“Whosoever goeth forth and hath fallen unto the
Chaldeans”: i.e., shall fall, etc.

As we have said above, nearly all the prophecies are thus written.
See Isa. 11:1-16 : “And a rod hath come out of the stock of Jesse,”
and often through the chapter.

Joh. 3:13.-“No man hath ascended up into the heaven”: i.e. ascend
up, or can ascend.

Joh. 4:38.-“Other men laboured, and ye have entered (i.e. shall enter,
or are entered) into their labours.”

Rom. 8:30.-The called are spoken of as already (in the Divine
purpose) in Christ, justified, yea, even glorified.

Eph. 2:6.-Believers are regarded as already raised from the dead and
seated in the heavenly places.

Heb. 2:7.-“Thou hast made (i.e., Thou wilt make) Him for a little while
less than the angels.” For this was a prophecy spoken of Christ long
before, in Psa. 8:1-9

Heb. 3:14.-“We have been made (i.e., we shall become) partakers of
Christ, if we hold,” etc.

Heb. 12:22.-“But ye have come (i.e., shall come) unto Mount Zion,”
etc.
3. The Aorist for the Past

The Aorist, or indefinite past tense, is used to denote an action
definitely past and completed some time ago.
Mat. 14:3.-“Now Herod, having laid hold of John, bound him”: i.e., had
bound him.
Joh. 18:24.-“New Annas sent him (i.e., had sent him) bound unto
Caiaphas.”

4. The Aorist for the Present
The Aorist is sometimes put for a past action or state continued up to
the present time.
Mat. 3:17.-“This is my beloved son, in whom | was (i.e., was and am)
well pleased.” So Mar. 1:11, and Luk. 3:22.
Mat. 23:2.-“The Scribes and Pharisees sat ({6., and continue to sit) in
Moses’ seat.”
Ματ. 16:19.-“Was taken up into heaven, and sat (/е., sat and
continues to sit) on the right hand of God.”
Luk. 1:47.-“My spirit rejoiced”: i.e., hath rejoiced and doth rejoice. A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
16411, “hath rejoiced.”
Luk. 15:16.-“And he was longing to have filled”: i.e., to fill.
Joh. 1:12.-“To them gave he authority to have become (i.e., to
become, or that they might be) sons of God.”
1Jn. 4:8.-“He that loveth not, knew not (i.e., knoweth not, or never
knew) God.”
Joh. 11:56.-“What think ye, that he will not have come (i.e., there is no
hope of his coming) to the feast?”
Joh. 15:6.-“Except anyone abide in me he was cast out (i.e., will be
cast out), and was ({:6., will be) burned.” See under Ellipsis.

5. The Present for the Past
Mat. 2:13.-“And when they were departed, behold, the angel of the
Lord appeareth ({6., appeared).”
Mar. 2:4.-“They are letting down the bed”: i.e., they did let down. See
also chaps, Mar. 3:19-20, Mar. 3:31 and Mar. 16:2.
Joh. 3:13.-“No man hath ascended into heaven, but the Son of man
who is (i.e., who was) in heaven.” Note that the perfect of the first verb
is used for the future, as already observed above.
Act. 9:26.-“They were all afraid of him, not believing (or refusing to
believe) that he is ({6., was. So the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) a disciple.”
Gal. 2:14.-“But when | saw that they do (i.e., did) not walk uprightly.”
Heb. 2:16.-“For not, indeed, of angels’ nature He taketh ({6., took)
hold, but of Abraham’s seed He taketh ({6., took) hold.”
Heb. 7:3.-“He remaineth (i.e., remained) a priest all his life.”
Heb. 7:8.-“One testified of that he liveth” (i.e., that he lived, viz., a
priest) all his life. See above.

6. The Present for the Future
This is put when the design is to show that some thing will certainly
come to pass, and is spoken of as though it were already present.
Mat. 2:4.-“Demanded of then where Christ should be (i.e., is to be)
born.”
Mat. 3:10.-“Every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn
down”: i.e., will be hewn down.
Mat. 5:46.-“What reward have ye?” i.e., will ye have?
Mat. 17:11.-“Elias indeed cometh (i.e., will come) first.”
Mat. 26:29.-“Until the day when | drink ({6., shall be drinking) it with
you new,” etc.
Mar. 9:31.-“The Son of man is delivered ({6., will be delivered) unto
the hands of men.”
Luk. 13:32.-“And the third day | am (i.e., shall be) perfected.”
1Co. 15:2.-“By which also ye are (i.e., will be) saved.”
1Со. 15:12.-“How say some among you that there is (i.e., will or can
be) no resurrection of the dead?”
2Pe. 3:11.-“Seeing that all these things are (i.e., shall be) dissolved.”
2Pe. 3:12.-“And the elements are (i.e., shall be) melted.”

Other examples may be seen in Mat. 11:3. Joh. 7:27; Joh. 7:33-34;
Joh. 8:58; Joh. 10:17-18; Joh. 12:26; Joh. 12:34; Joh. 13:6; Joh.
13:27; Joh. 16:16. Act. 1:6. 1Co. 15:35; 1Co. 16:5. Rev. 11:5, etc., etc.
7. The Present for the Paulo post futurum*
[Note: This tense differs from the simple or perfect future by denoting
and referring to something which will soon be past.]

Mat. 26:24.-“The Son of man indeed goeth (i.e., will soon be gone, or
given over), as it is written of Him.”

So verse 45. Mar. 14:41. Luk. 22:22; Luk. 22:37. Joh. 13:3; Joh.
14:3; Joh. 14:18-19; Joh. 17:11, ete.
Luk. 22:19.-“Which is given (i.e., which will soon have been given) for
you.”

So also Mat. 26:28. Mar. 14:24. 1Co. 11:24.
Luk. 24:49.-“Behold, | send (i.e., | shall soon have sent) the promise
of my Father,” etc. So also Joh. 20:17.
2Ti. 4:6.-“For | already am being poured (or offered)”: i.e., | shall soon
have been offered up.

8. The Future for the Past

The future is used for the past when it is understood that the thing or
matter was future at the time of writing or speaking.
Exo. 15:5.-“The depths will cover ({.6., have covered and will continue
to cover) them.”

Jdg. 2:1.-“I shall make (i.e., | made) you to go up out of Egypt and
shall bring (i.e., have brought) you into the land which | sware unto
your fathers.” When the angel spake this it was past: when Jehovah
said it, it was future.

Jdg. 5:8.-“He (i.e., Israel) will choose (i.e., he chose) new Gods.” For
Deborah is speaking of the cause of the affliction which had fallen
upon the People: viz., idolatry.

Jdg. 21:25.-‘Each man will do (i.e., did) what was right in his own
eyes.”
2Sa. 3:33.-“And the king lamented over Abner, and said, Will Abner
die as a fool dieth?” (i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , Died Abner, etc.).
2Sa. 12:3.-“She will (i.e., did) eat of his own meat, and will drink ({6.,
drank) of his own cup, and will lie (i.e., lay) in his bosom, and so she
became unto him as a daughter.”
Isa. 63:3.-“I shall tread ({6., | have trodden) ...” as in the rest of the
verse.

9. The Future for the Present
This is a case in which what was then future at the time of speaking,
remained, or remains, as a present fact. The present in this case is
often in the subjunctive or reflexive mood.
Gen. 2:10.-“And thence it will part (i.e., gets parted, or parts itself) and
becomes four heads.”
Num. 18:7.-“I shall give (i.e., | do give) your priest’s office unto you as
a service of gift”: {6., the gift at the time of speaking was future; but,
ministry remains an ever present gift.
Job. 3:20.-“Wherefore will light be given to him that is in misery?” (i.e.,
is light given).
Psa. 1:2.-“And in His Law he will (i.e., doth) meditate.” So Psa. 3:5 (6);
22:2 (3); 25:1; 31:5 (6). Hos. 1:2, etc.
Mat. 12:31.-“Every sin and blasphemy will be ({6., may be) forgiven to
men.
Luk. 6:7.-“Whether he will heal (i.e., whether he does heal) on the
sabbath day.” Here the Critical Texts actually read the present tense,
as in the next passage (Luk. 23:46).
Luk. 23:46.-“Father, into thy hands | shall commend (i.e., | commend)
my spirit.”
Rom. 3:30.-“Seeing it is one God which shall (i.e., doth) justify.”
10. The Future for the Imperative

The Future of the Indicative is by Hebrew idiom frequently used for the
Imperative. When this is the case, the Imperative is very forcible and
emphatic; not being so much a mere command as the assertion of a
fact which could hardly be otherwise. All the ten commandments are
in this form.

“Thou wilt not’ not merely “shalt not.”
Jdg. 5:21.-“O my soul, thou wilt tread down strength”: i.e., tread thou
down (not, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] ‚ “hast trodden down’); or, Μ.Μ. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] : “march on.”
So Psa. 5:11 (12).
1Со. 5:13.-“Ye will put away (i.e., put away) from among yourselves
that wicked person.
1Ti. 6:8.-“We shall be content”: {6., let us be content.
IV. Heterosis of Person and Number (Verbs)

In order to make what is said more emphatic, Hebrew idiom
sometimes changes the number and person of the verb. In most of
these cases the figure is correctly rendered in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , so
that we need only give a few examples which are there passed over.

1. The First Person for the Third
Ecc. 3:18.-“I said in my heart according to the reasoning of the sons
of men”: i.e., according to the reasoning of man, or human reasoning:
i.e., man says in his heart.

In Rom. 7:1-25, Paul, though speaking in the first person, is saying
what is true of all who share his experience: and not merely speaking
of his own case as being peculiar or different from others.

Rom. 10:18.-“But | say.” Who says it? David! But by the Holy Spirit
what David said is now repeated by Paul in the first person.

2. The Second Person for the Third
Isa. 1:29.-“They shall be ashamed for the oaks which ye (i.e., they)
have desired,” etc.

For they desired them, of course: yet the persons addressed were
equally guilty and are thus by the sudden change of persons charged
with the same sin.
Isa. 42:20.-“Seeing many things, but thou observest not”: (i.e., he
observes not) as in the rest of the verse.
Jer. 29:19.-“But ye (i.e., they) would not hear.”
Gal. 6:1.-“Ye that are spiritual restore such an one, in the spirit of
meekness, considering thyself (instead of yourselves).” This is in order
to emphasize the fact that those who are thus addressed stand each
in the same individual danger.

3. The Third person for the First or Second
Gen. 49:4.-“Because thou wentest up to thy father’s bed; then
defiledst thou it: he went (/.e., thou wentest) up to my couch.”
Isa. 54:1.-Here the third person is rendered correctly in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] by
the second.
Lam. 3:1.-“I am the man, he hath (i.e., | have) seen affliction.”
Mic. 7:18.-Here we have “his” inheritance, after the address “like
thee.”
4. The Plural for the Singular
Gen. 29:27.-“Fulfil her week, and we ({6., I) will give thee this also for
thy service.”
Num. 22:6.-“Peradventure | shall prevail, that we (i.e., |) may smite
them.”
2Sa. 16:20.-“Then said Absalom to Ahithophel, Give counsel among
you What shall we (i.e., 1) do?”
Job. 18:2.-“How long will it be ere ye (i.e., thou) make an end of
words? mark, and afterwards we (i.e., |) will speak.”
Dan. 2:36.-“This is the dream; and we (i.e., |) will tell the interpretation
thereof.”
Mar. 4:30.-“Whereunto shall we (i.e., |) liken the kingdom of God?”
Joh. 3:11.-“We (i.e., |) speak that we (i.e., 1) know, and testify that we
(i.e., 1) have seen; and ye receive not our (/.e., my) witness.”
Joh. 21:24.-“And we (i.e., |) know that his testimony is true.”
Rom. 1:5.-“By whom we (i.e., |, Paul) have received grace and
apostleship.” (See also Hendiadys).
1Ti. 2:15.-“She will be saved through the child-bearing if they (i.e.,
and all her daughters) abide in faith,” etc.
5. The Singular for the Plural
Num. 32:25.-“Spake” is (sing) “he spake”: i.e., the tribe as composed
of the children of Gad,” etc. It is put for the plural, “they spake”; and it
should really be “they spake” (viz., the children of Gad and the
children of Reuben), according to the Sevir. This extra-official reading
is the Textual reading in several MSS.; in the Samaritan Text, in the
Targums of Jonathan and Onkelos, the Septuagint, the Syriac, and the
Vulgate. See the note in Dr. Ginsburg’s Hebrew Bible. So 1Sa. 16:4 :
i.e., one particular elder spoke for all. But the sing. [Note: The Singular
Number.] is put for the plural: for here, again, according to the note in
Dr. Ginsburg’s Text, the verb should be in the plural. This is not only
the reading according to the Sevir, but it is in the Text of many MSS.,
the Editio princeps of the Prophets (Soncino, 1485-6), the first edition
of the Hebrew Bible (1488), the Targum, the LXX. [Note: The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] Syriac, and the Vulgate.
See also Est. 9:23. Job. 12:7. Psa. 73:7. Pro. 14:1; Pro. 14:9.
V. Heterosis of Degree
The Hebrew has no degrees of comparison in the Adjective: hence
other methods are adopted to express them.

In the New Testament, while the language is Greek, the thoughts
and idioms are Hebrew; so that the Hebrew methods of comparison
are frequently adopted; and thus we have, by the use of Enallage,
several examples of exchange in the expression of Degree. (See
under Idiom).

1. The Positive for the Comparative
Where the positive is used with the comparative particle ἤ (ee), than, it
implies that, though there may be in one sense a comparison, yet, in
another and true sense, there is really no comparison at all; for the
use of the positive declares that the one case is so, rather than the
other, which is not so.
Psa. 118:8-9.-“It is good to trust in the Lord, rather than to put
confidence in man”: i.e., the one is good, the other is not; yea, it is
accursed (see Jer. 17:5; Jer. 17:7).
Mat. 12:7.-1 will have mercy, and not sacrifice’: i.e., rather than
sacrifice.
Mat. 18:8.-“It is good for thee”: {6., (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) it is better for
thee, etc. But the meaning is that the one condition is good, and not
the other. Hence it is expressed “rather than the other.”
Mar. 3:4.-“Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath-days or to do evil?”:
i.eé., more lawful to do good than to do evil. The evil His enemies did
on the sabbath was in watching Him.
Luk. 18:14.- tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather
than the other.”

Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] has translated it not as a comparative, but as
positive; supplying the word “rather,” which is quite correct. The
thought being that, while there must be a comparison between the two
men, the one was justified and the other was not.

The whole parable is concerning justification and not about prayer.
See verse 9.
Joh. 6:27.-“Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for the meat
that endureth to eternal life”: i.e., labour more for the latter than for the
former, or rather than.
Joh. 15:22.-“If | had not come and spoken to them, they had not had
sin”: ᾖΘ., so much sin.
1Co. 3:7.-“So neither is the planter anything, nor the waterer; but God
that maketh grow’: i.e., they were nothing in comparison with God.

2. The Positive for the Superlative

1Sa. 17:14.-“And David was the small one (i.e., the smallest): and the
three great ones (i.e., the greater or greatest three) followed Saul.”
2Ch. 21:17.-“The small one (i.e., the smallest) of his sons.”
Jon. 3:5.-“From their great one (i.e., the greatest one among them) to
their small (i.e., smallest) one.”
Mat. 5:19.-“Whosoever therefore shall break one of these shortest
commandments and shall teach men so, he shall be called least in the
kingdom of heaven, but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same
shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.” See under
Synceceiosis.
Heb. 10:21.-“And having a great (i.e., highest) priest over the house of
God.”So Heb. 13:20.
3. The Comparative for the Positive

1Ti. 3:14.-“Hoping to come unto thee more quickly”: {Θ., soon; or, as
in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 16111], shortly.
2Ti. 1:18.-“And in how many things he ministered to me in Ephesus
thou knowest better’: {6., well; or (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ), very well: i.e., to
well to need reminding of.

4. The Comparative for the Superlative
Mat. 13:32.-“Which indeed is less than (or least of) all the seeds
(which men sow in the fields).”

Mat. 18:1.-“Who then is greater in the kingdom of heaven”: or (as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] ), greatest.

Joh. 10:29.-“My Father, which gave them me, is greater than (i.e.,
greatest of) all.”

1Co. 13:13.-“But the greater (i.e., the greatest) of these is charity.”
1Co. 15:19.-"If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all
men more ({6., most, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) miserable.”

5. The Superlative for the Comparative
Joh. 1:15.-“For he was first of me”: i.e., prior to me (A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] before
me). So the word first is used in Mar. 6:21; Luk. 19:47; Act. 25:2; Rev.
13:12; and perhaps Rev. 21:1 : “the former heaven and earth”; and
Rev. 20:6 : the former resurrection of the two foretold in the Old
Testament and in the Gospels. Not necessarily the special
resurrection of the Church of God revealed in 1Th. 4:16.
Joh. 15:18.-“If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me first of
you”: i.e., before you. So 1Co. 14:30. 1Ti. 5:12.
2Th. 2:3.-“Except there come the apostacy first”: {6., before it.
1Jn. 4:19.-“We love Him because He first loved us”: i.e., before we
loved Him.

VI. Heterosis of Number
1. The Singular for the Plural
Gen. 3:8.-“Hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God
amongst the tree (i.e., trees) of the garden”; or, perhaps, tree in the
sense of tree-growth or “a wood” as we speak of a collection of trees.
Gen. 49:6.-“In their anger they slew a man (i.e., men) and in their self-
will they houghed an ox (i.e., oxen).”
Exo. 14:17.-Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has taken the singular “chariot” as
though put for the plural. But it is a question whether it be so in this
case, owing to the alternate structure.
а Pharaoh.
b — Нб host.
а Pharaoh's chariot.
Ь — His horsemen.
Exo. 15:1; Exo. 15:21.-“The horse and his rider”: i.e., horses and their
riders.”
Exo. 23:28.-“I shall send the hornet before thee”: {6., hornets (without
the article).
Lev. 11:2.-“This is the beast which ye shall eat”: ᾖ6., these are the
beasts, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.]

2Co. 11:26.-“Dangers in the city (i.e., cities, or city-dangers), dangers
in the wilderness ({.6., wildernesses, or wilderness-dangers).”

1Со. 6:5.-“One who shall be able to judge between his brother”: {6.,
his brethren.

See also Num. 21:7; Num. 21:31. Deu. 20:19. 2Sa. 19:41 (42).
Pro. 17:22; Hos. 5:6. Jon. 2:3 (4), etc. And in New Testament, Rev.
21:21, “street” for streets. Also often “demon” and “wicked ones”
means all the demons and evil spirits. See Joh. 8:44, and Eph. 6:16.

In Pronouns the singular is frequently put for the plural. See Deu.
21:10. Jos. 2:4. 2Ki. 3:3. Psa. 35:8. Php. 3:20.

2. The Plural for the Singular
This is so put when great excellence or magnitude is denoted.

Our attention is thus called to the importance of the thing or matter
concerning which the statement is made.
Gen. 4:10.-“Bloods”: i.e., much blood.
Lev. 19:24.-“It shall be holy to praise the Lord withal.” Heb. (margin), it
shall be “holiness of praises to the Lord”: i.e., the fruit of a young tree
was not to be eaten for three years, but in the fourth year it was to be
counted as holy to the great praise and glory of Jehovah. See under
Prosopopesia.

Gen. 19:11.-“And they smote the men that were at the door of the
house with the blindnesses”: i.e., with intense blindness (as in 2Ki.
6:18, the only occurrences of this word).

2Sa. 3:28.-“Bloods”: /е., much blood.

1Ch. 28:3.-“Bloods”: i.e., much blood.

Psa. 22:3 (4).-“O Thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel”: i.e., the
loud or perfect praise.
Psa. 28:8.-“The Lord is their strength, and he is the strength of
salvations”: {6., great saving strength or strength of great and mighty
salvation. The margin has “his strength,” but 6il stands for 6Nil
written defective for plene, as is shown and preserved in some ancient
versions and noted in R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
margin.* [Note: See Dr. Ginsburg’s edition of the Hebrew Bible.] The
meaning thus is:-

“Jehovah is the strength of his people,

And He is the strength of great salvation of His anointed.”
Psa. 42:5 (6), 11 (12); 43:5.-“l shall yet praise him for the helps or
healths”: {6., the wonderful help, great deliverance, or great salvation.
Psa. 45:15 (16).-“With gladnesses and rejoicing shall they be
brought”: i.e., with great gladness and rejoicing.
Psa. 47:6 (7).-“Praises”: i.e., great or loudest praise.
Psa. 49:3 (4).-“My mouth shall speak wise things”: {6., great wisdom.
Psa. 51:17 (19).-“The sacrifices of God”: the great sacrifice of God is
a broken spirit.
Psa. 89:1 (2).-“I will sing of the mercies”: i.e., the great and wondrous
mercy. So often in N.T., Rom. 12:1. 2Co. 1:3.

Psa. 90:10.-“And if by reason of strengths (or excellencies)”: i.e., of
great strength.

Psa. 139:14.-‘I will confess thee, because that (with) wonders (i.e.,
with great wonder) | have been distinguished, and wonderful are thy
works.”

Psa. 144:7.-“Send thine hands from above; rid me and deliver me”:
i.e., send thy gracious protection and great delivering power.

The singular is actually the Textual reading, not only in some
Manuscripts, but in the Editio princeps of the Hagiographa (Naples,
1486-7), the Targum, the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325
b.c.).] , the Syriac, and the Vulgate. See Dr. Ginsburg’s note on this
passage in his edition of the Hebrew Bible.

See under Anthropopatheia.

Ecc. 5:6 (7).-“Vanities”: i.e., great vanity.

Isa. 26:2.-“Which keepeth truths”: i.e., the great and important truth of
God.

Isa. 58:11.-“In droughts”: /.e., in great drought.
Jer. 22:21.-“| spake unto thee in thy prosperities (i.e., in thy great
prosperity), but thou saidst, | will not hear.”

Lam. 1:9.-“Wonders”: i.e., a great wonder.

Lam. 3:22.-‘It is of the Lord’s mercies”: {6., great mercy.

Eze. 22:2.-“The city of the bloods”: i.e., the city where so much blood
has been shed.

Eze. 25:17.-“Vengeances”: i.e., great or terrible vengeance. See A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] margin and Psa. 94:1.

Eze. 28:10.-“Deaths”: i.e., the awful death.

Dan. 2:18.-“Mercies”: i.e., great mercy.

Mat. 26:65.-“Then the High Priest rent his clothes”: i.e., his great robe
of office.

Joh. 1:13.-“Not of bloods”: {6., not of the best or purest blood; or not
of the very best of human parents.

Act. 1:7.-“Times or seasons”: i.e., the great and important time and
season. So 1Th. 5:1. 1Ti. 6:15. Tit. 1:3.

Rom. 12:1.-“Mercies”: i.e., great mercy.
1Со. 15:29.-It has been suggested that in this passage we have the
plural for the singular. “What shall they do which are baptized for the
dead?” (plural) /е., for Christ, who was put to death.

But see this passage under Ellipsis (page 41).
2Co. 1:3.-“Mercies”: i.e., great mercy.
Heb. 9:12.-“Into the holies”: /.e., the most holy place.
Heb. 9:23.-“With better sacrifices than these”: ie., one better and
greater sacrifice; for Christ offered only one sacrifice.
Heb. 10:28.-“Without mercies”: i.e., without the least mercy.
Jam. 1:17.-“Father of lights”: i.e., true light. Hence, the Father who is
the source of all true light (being the genitive of origin).
1Ре. 5:3.-“Not as being lords over God's heritages”: i.e., great
heritage. The word “God” is repeated, by Ellipsis, from verse 2, and
presents the same truth as Act. 20:28.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] is a gloss and not a
translation:-“Neither as lording it over the charge allotted to you.” The
great point is that God’s People are His great inheritance; and that no
man has a right to assume lordship or headship over it. It is Peter who
says this by the Holy Spirit. The Greek is τῶν κλήρων (ίφη kleerdbn),
the word from which we have the term “clergy.” So that man’s thought
is just the opposite of God’s. Man’s thought is that the people are not
to lord it over the clergy; but that the clergy are to lord it over them.
This is just the opposite of what is taught us and impressed upon us
by the use of this figure in 1Pe. 5:3, where the truth is that the clergy
are not to lord it over the laity.
2Pe. 3:11.-“In holy conversations and godlinesses”: i.e., holy, weighty,
and solemn conduct and piety.

Certain words are generally plural: e.g., αἰῶνες (aiqones), ages.
This may be to mark the fact that eternity is made up of successive
ages: the singular referring either to one such age; or including all, as
a whole. Hence we have εἰς τὸν αἰῶνα (eis ton афпа), unto the age or
for ever (Mat. 21:19. Joh. 6:51; Joh. 6:58. 1Pe. 1:25 from Isa. 40:8,
etc.). And εἰς τοὺς αἰῶνας (eis tous αἰφπας), unto the ages (Luk. 1:33.
Rom. 1:25; Rom. 9:5. Heb. 13:8, etc.).

OUpavoi (ouranoi), heavens, is generally plural; a usage arising
from the Hebrew idiom where the word is dual. It is always plural in
the phrase “kingdom of heaven,” where “heaven” is used by
Metonymy (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) for God. The Hebrew idiom is
sometimes rendered thus, literally, and sometimes idiomatically,
“kingdom of God.”

See under Idiom.

3. Sometimes the plural is put for an indefinite number, or for one
of many

In this latter case the word “one” is to be supplied by Ellipsis.

Gen. 8:4.-“The mountains”: i.e., one of the mountains, or the great

mountain.

Gen. 19:29.-“The cities in which Lot dwelt”: {.6., in one of which cities.

Jdg. 12:7.-Here the words “one of’ are supplied in italics.

Neh. 3:8.-“Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, of the goldsmiths”: i.e., of one
of the goldsmiths.
Job. 21:32.-“Yet shall he (the wicked) be brought to the graves”: i.e.,
to one of the graves: i.e., his grave.
Mat. 2:20.-“They are dead who seek,” etc.: only Herod is meant (see
Exo. 4:19).
Mat. 9:8.-“Which gave such power to men (pl. [Note: The Plural
Number,] ).” Only one is meant, viz., Christ.

Transition or Change from the Singular to the Plural.

In these cases, it is not so much that one number or person is
exchanged for another as that there is a sudden change from one to
the other, calling our attention to the truth taught by this change. See
under Anacoluthon.

Exo. 10:2.-“And that thou mayest tell in the ears of thy son ... that ye
may know how that | am the Lord.”

Psa. 14:1.-“The fool hath said in his heart, ‘There is no God.’ They are
corrupt,” etc.

Isa. 2:20.-“In that day shall a man cast his idols ... which they have
made each one for himself to worship.”

Gal. 4:6-8.-“Because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the spirit of His
Son into your hearts ... Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a
son ... Howbeit, then, when ye knew not God,” etc.
Gal. 6:1.-“Ye which are spiritual restore such an one in the spirit of
meekness; considering thyself.”
See also 1Th. 5:1-10. 1Ti. 2:15. Rev. 1:3, etc.
Vil. Heterosis of Gender
As the Hebrew (like French) has no neuter gender, sometimes the
masculine is used, and sometimes the feminine.

And this is seen in the Greek of the New Testament,
notwithstanding that the Greek has the neuter gender. There are,
however, other exchanges of gender besides this.

1. The Masculine for the Feminine
Act. 9:37.-“Whom when they had washed.” Here, though (in the
Greek) the masculine “they” is put, women are meant.
Heb. 9:16-17.-“The testator,” 6 διαθέµενος (ho diatheminos): i.e., the
covenant-maker, is masculine; but the word for sacrifice, to which it
refers, is feminine: yet the masculine is used, because the sacrifice
was Christ Himself; otherwise it would have been feminine to agree
with sacrifice (ἡ θύσια, hee thusia). Thus, though the Greek word is
feminine, the Heb. éag is masculine, and © διαθέµινος agrees with
the Heb. thought, rather than with the Greek word. (See pages 69 and
493).

2. The Masculine for the Neuter
Gen. 2:18.-“He is not good”: i.e., it is not a good thing for him (man) to
be alone. See also Psa. 119:65. Isa. 5:20; Isa. 7:15.
Joh. 16:13.-“When He-the Spirit of truth-is come, He will guide you
into all truth, for He shall not speak of Himself; but whatsoever He
shall hear that shall He speak, and He will show you things to come.”
Here, though the word “Spirit” is neuter, the pronouns are masculine,
and this is so put in order to show and impress upon us that the Holy
Spirit is a Person.
3. The Feminine for the Neuter

Gen. 50:20.-“Ye thought evil (fem.) against me, but God meant it unto
good (fem.).” While the masc. mA is generally used for moral evil, its
feminine ma is used for the consequence of that-viz., physical evil.
So here, the feminine denotes mischief, hurt: “Ye meant me harm; but
God meant it (masc.) for good”: i.e., meant to turn it to good. So also
Job. 5:9. Psa. 12:3; Psa. 27:4.

Also for the use of pronouns (see Gen. 15:6; Gen. 43:32. Exo.
10:11. Num. 23:23. Psa. 118:23. Mat. 21:42. Mar. 12:11.
4. The Neuter for the Masculine or Feminine
Mat. 1:20.-“For that (neut.) which is conceived (or begotten) in her.”
So Luk. 1:35 : “that holy thing.”
Mat. 18:11.-“For the Son of Man is come to save that (neut.) which
was lost”: i.e., lost sinners, of both sexes.
Joh. 1:46 (47).-“Can there any good thing (neut.) come out of
Nazareth?” The words were spoken with reference to Christ.
Joh. 3:6.-“That (neut.) which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that
(neut.) which is born of the Spirit is spirit.” The neuter is used to agree
with the word “thing,” though person is meant: because that which is
born of the flesh or spirit is rather the fleshly or spiritual nature, than
the man as an individual: but also, because it includes men and
women.
Heb. 7:7.-“And without all contradiction the less (neut.) is blessed of
the better.”

See also Luk. 16:15. Joh. 6:39 (compare verse 40). 1Co. 1:27-28.
1Jn. 1:1.-“That which was from the beginning,” etc.: ᾖΘ., Him who
was. Compare Joh. 1:1; Joh. 1:14.
1Jn. 5:4.-“For whatsoever (neut.) is begotten of God.” That this refers
to persons is clear from verses 1-5: but it is put neuter both on
account of the spiritual or new nature which is referred to (spirit being
neuter), as well as from the fact that both men and women are
included.

1Jn. 5:8.-“There are three that bear witness in earth, the spirit (neut.),
and the water (neut.), and the blood (neut.), and these (masc.) three
are one.” Because persons are meant, the pronoun is masculine,
though the other words are neuter.

Hypallage; or, Interchange
Interchange of Construction
Hy-pal’-la-gee, ὑπαλλαγή, from ὑπό (hypo), under, and ἀλλάσσειν
(allassein), to change. An underchange or interchange.

Hypallage differs from Antiptosis in that it relates to an interchange
of construction whereby an adjective or other word, which /ogically
belongs to one connexion, is grammatically united with another, so
that what is said of or attributed to one thing ought to be said of or
attributed to the other.

In the case of two nouns (the latter in regimen), they are
interchanged in sense, not as in Antiptosis (where the former
becomes an adjective instead of the latter), but they are reversed in
order or construction without regard to the purely adjectival sense.

Shakespeare makes Cassius say of Julius Caesar:

“His coward lips did from their colour fly.”

Instead of “the colour did fly from his coward lips.”

This interchange attracts attraction to what is said, and thus
emphasizes the true and real meaning.

Gen. 10:9.-“A strong man of hunting”: {.Θ., a mighty hunter, as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

Here, according to the ordinary usage, the word “hunting” would
be (by Enallage) the qualifying word: a hunting man of strength; but,
by Hypallage, there is an Interchange, by which the noun becomes the
adjective: a mighty hunter.

Gen. 29:14.-“And he abode with him a month of days”: {6., the days
of a month; a calendar month. A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] : “The space of a month.”

Lev. 12:4.-“The blood of her purifying” or “purgation”: i.e., in the
purgation or cleansing from her blood.

Deu. 12:3.-“The graven images of their gods”: i.e., their gods
consisting of graven images.

Jos. 2:6.-“She hid them with the flax of stalks”: i.e., with the stalks of
flax (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] ), or flax-stalks.

2Sa. 12:27.-“I have fought against Rabbah and have taken the city of
waters”: i.e., taken or cut off the waters of the city. 2Sa. 12:28 shows
he had not taken the city, for Joab says to David, come “lest | take the
city.”
When, therefore, in verse 26, it is said he “took the royal city,” it
must mean the royal part of the city, where the king resided.
1Ki. 17:14.-“Thus saith the Lord God of Israel: The barrel of meal (i.e.,
the meal in the barrel) shall not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil
(i.e., the oil in the cruse) fail.”
Neh. 10:34.-“For the offering of wood”: i.e., the wood for the offering,
unless it mean the free supply of wood.
Est. 9:19.-“That dwelt in the cities of the villages”: i.e., in the villages
belonging to the cities.
Job. 31:27.-“Or my hand hath kissed my mouth”: i.e. (as A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
renders it), my mouth hath kissed my hand.
Psa. 19:13 (14).-“Keep back also thy servant from presumptious sins”:
ie., keep back presumptuous sins from thy servant, “let them not,” etc.
Psa. 139:23-24.-“Search me, O God (El) ... and see if there be any
wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting”: i.e., see if | be
in any wicked way. The Heb. is “a way of grief:” where grief (the effect
of a wicked way) is put (by Metonymy) for the wicked way which
causes it. See Metonymy.
Pro. 26:23.-“Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd
covered with silver of dross”: {6., dross of silver.

Jer. 11:19.-“I knew not that they had devised devices against me,
saying, Let us destroy his dish in his-food”: i.e., the food in his dish.
Eze. 21:29 (34).-“In the time of the iniquity of the end”: {6., in the time
of the end of their iniquity; or, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “when their iniquity shall
have an end.”

Mat. 8:3.-“His leprosy was cleansed”: {6., he was cleansed from his
leprosy. Or perhaps leprosy is put (by Metonymy of the adjunct) for the
person diseased with it. See under Metonymy.

Act. 5:20.-“All the words of this life”: i.e., all these words of life.

Rom. 5:17.-“Abundance of grace”: i.e., abounding grace (not gracious
abounding).

Rom. 7:24.-“Who shall deliver me from the body of this death?” {6.,
this body of death (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin); or, this mortal, dying body.
Not until this mortal body shall die, or be changed and glorified, shall
the saints be delivered from their conflict between the old and the new
natures. It cannot be accomplished by vows or resolutions, or by
discipline, which is the fond idea and aim of all who are ignorant of this
teaching, from Rome to Keswick.

Rom. 9:31.-“But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness,
hath not attained to the law of righteousness”: ᾖθ. to the
righteousness of the law.

Rom. 15:19.-“So that from Jerusalem, and round about unto Illyricum,
| have fully preached the gospel of Christ”: i.e., | have filled, with the
gospel of Christ, Jerusalem and round about, etc.

2Co. 3:7.-“If the ministration (or ministry) of death written and
engraven in stones.” It was the /etters, not the ministry, which were
engraven on stones.

Gal. 6:1.-“The spirit of meekness”: i.e., meekness of spirit.

Eph. 1:9.-“The mystery of His will.”

The word µυστήριον (musteerion) rendered mystery always means
a secret. And here it is the Secret pertaining to God’s purpose: i.e., the
Secret which He hath purposed; or, by the figure Hypallage, His
Secret purpose, because the noun in regimen is the word qualified
instead of the word which qualifies.

In Jdt. 2:2 we have the remarkable expression: Nebuchadnezzar
“called together all his servants, and all his great men, and
communicated with them his secret counsel”: i.e., the secret of his will.
The word µυστήριον is the same in each case, but in the case of
Nebuchadnezzar it was the secret of his βουλή (boulee): i.e., his will,
because he had determined it: while in Eph. 1:9, it is the secret of
God’s θέληµα (theleema): i.e., His will, because He desired it. Hence
the meaning is “God’s secret purpose or counsel.”

Heb. 9:15.-“That ... they which are called might receive the promise of
eternal inheritance”: i.e., the eternal inheritance which had been
promised.

Heb. 9:23.-Here, the purification attributed to the heavenly things
really applies to those who shall enter; as is clear from the former part
of the verse.

Jam. 2:17.-“Faith ... is dead”: i.e., the man who says he has such faith
is dead.

Jam. 3:4.-“Wherever the impulse of the steersman may will”: {6., as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] ‚ whithersoever the governor (i.e., pilot) listeth.

Rev. 21:24.-“And the nations of them that are saved”: i.e., them that
are saved of the nations. Compare Rev. 7:9 and Rev. 19:14.
Metonymy; or, Change of Noun
The Change of one Noun for another Related Noun
Me-ton’-y-my. Sometimes pronounced Met’-o-nym-y. Greek,
Μετωνυµία, from µετά (meta), indicating change, and ὄνομα (onoma),
a name; or, in grammar, a noun.
Metonymy is a figure by which one name or noun is used instead
of another, to which it stands in a certain relation.

The change is in the noun, and only in a verb as connected with
the action proceeding from it.

The names of persons are put by Metonymy for something which
stands in a special relation to them. Thus we speak of “a stanhope”
(carriage), from the Hon. Mr. Stanhope; “a brougham,” from Lord
Brougham; “boycotting,” from Capt. Boycott; a “blanket,” “negus,” a
“spencer,” a “d’oyley,” etc., from the respective inventors.

Thus it will be seen that Metonymy is not founded on resemblance,
but on relation.

When we say that a person writes “a bad hand,” we do not mean a
hand, but we use the noun “hand” for the characters which it writes.

Metonymy is of four kinds: viz., of the Cause, of the Effect, of the
Subject, and of the Adjunct.

|. Metonymy of the Cause is when the cause is put for the effect:
ie., when the doer is put for the thing done; or, the instrument for that
which is effected; or, where the action is put for the effect produced by
the action.

Il. Metonymy of the Effect is the opposite of the above: when the
effect is put for the cause.

Ill. Metonymy of the Subject is when the subject is put for
something pertaining to it: as the possessor for the possessed; the
thing signified for the sign.

IV. Metonymy of the Adjunct, on the contrary, is when that which
pertains to anything is put for the thing itself.

Some grammarians have added a fifth Metonymy, where the
antecedent is put for the consequent; but it really belongs to
Metonymy of the Cause.

The following is the complete outline of the figure now to be
treated of:-

METONYMY
|. OF THE CAUSE.
i. The person acting for the thing done.
ii. The instrument for the thing effected.
iii. The thing or action for the thing produced by it.
iv. The material for the thing made from or of it.
Il. Of the EFFECT.
i. The action or effect for the person producing it.
ii. The thing effected for the instrument or organic cause of
it.
iii. The effect for the thing or action causing it.
iv. The thing made for the material from which it is made or
produced.
Ill. Of the SUBJECT.
i. The subject receiving for the thing received.
ii. — The container for the contents.
iii. The possessor for the thing possessed.
iv. The object for that which pertains or relates to it.
v. The thing signified for the sign.
IV. Of the ADJUNCT.

i. The accident for the subject.

ii. |The contents for the container.

iii. The time for the things done or existing in it.

iv. The appearance of a thing for its nature; or, the opinion

about it for the thing itself.

v. The action or affection for the object of it.

vi. The sign for the thing signified.

vii. The name of a person for the person himself, or the thing.

|. Metonymy of the Cause

This is when the cause is put for the effect; and it is of four kinds: (i.)
The person for the action; (Π.) The instrument for the effect; (Ш.) The
thing or the action for its product; and (iv.) The material cause for the
matter made. We will consider these in their order: and the examples
themselves will explain the meaning and use of the figure.
i. The person acting for the thing done
1. The Spirit for the gifts and operations of the Spirit
Joh. 3:34.-“Рог God giveth not the Spirit by measure to Him”: i.e., the
gifts and operations produced by the Spirit. The Holy Spirit is a
person, and cannot, therefore, be measured out or given by measure.
The “measure” must consequently mean the measure of His power or
gifts bestowed.

Joh. 6:63.-“The words that | speak unto you, they, are spirit ({6., the
gift and operation of the Spirit of God), and they are life (i.e., they give
and produce divine, spiritual and eternal life).”

Act. 19:2.-“Did ye on believing receive the Holy Ghost?” Here, this
must mean the wondrous gifts of the Spirit, because they had already
received Him, or they could not have believed at all. Verse 6 also
shows that this must be so, for the very gifts and powers are named
and exercised.

1Co. 14:12.-“Forasmuch as ye also are zealous of spirits”: ie., of
spiritual powers and gifts and revelations. Here, the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has
actually so rendered the figure, and put the literal Greek in the margin!
So verses 26 and 32.

1Со. 14:32.-“The spirits (i.e., the spiritual gifts) of prophets are subject
to prophets”: i.e., they are able to use them to edification according to
the instructions given in Scripture.
Gal. 3:2.-“Received ye the Spirit ({6., the gifts of the Spirit) by the
works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?”

Verse 5: “He, therefore, that ministereth to you the Spirit ({6., the
gifts of the Spirit) and worketh miracles among you,” etc.

Eph. 5:18.-“Be filled with the Spirit’: {6., not with the Person of the
Holy Spirit surely! but with His operations: i.e., with the gifts which
come through the ministry of the Word; as is clear from Col. 3:16,
where this effect is produced by the same cause: viz., occupation of
the heart with God-the Word of Christ dwelling richly within us.

1Th. 5:19.-“Quench not the Spirit”: i.e., do not hinder in yourself or in
others the use of spiritual gifts.

The verb to quench is oBévvuul (sbennumi), to put out, and always
of extinguishing a light or fire; hence, to extinguish.* [Note: See its
occurrences: Mat. 22:20. Mar. 9:44; Mar. 9:46; Mar. 9:48. Eph. 6:16.
Heb. 11:34, where it is rendered “quench”; and Mat. 25:8, where it is
“gone out, or going out” (marg.).] It is impossible for mortal man to
extinguish the Holy Spirit of God: so that there must be a figure here.
That figure lies not in the word “quench,” but in the word “spirit,” which
is put for the gifts of the Spirit. These are quenched, when any,
assuming and usurping authority, forbid the use of them by a brother,
or hinder him in the exercise of them.
This is clearly the subject of the exhortation; for the very next
sentence goes on to speak of the manner in which it is to be obeyed:
“Despise not prophesyings”: do not treat them with contempt or scorn;
do not neglect or disregard them. This is the meaning of ἐξουθενέω
(exoutheneq) (see Luk. 23:11. Act. 4:11. Rom. 14:10, where it is
rendered set at nought; and Luk. 18:9. Rom. 14:3. 1Co. 1:28; 1Co.
16:11. Gal. 4:14, where it is rendered despise: and 1Co. 6:4, to be
least esteemed; and 2Co. 10:10, contemptible).

2. The Spirit is put also for His quickening, regenerating and
sanctifying work in man, in creating the new nature with its
spiritual desires and powers
Psa. 51:10 (12).-“Renew a right spirit within me”: i.e., the Divine
workings of the Spirit by which alone true obedience is rendered to

God. See Eze. 11:19. Eph. 4:23. Rom. 12:2.
Joh. 3:6.-“That which is born of the Spirit is spirit.”
Here, the second time the word “spirit” is used, it is in a different
sense, by the figure of Antanaclasis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] , page
286); and by Metonymy it is put for the effect of the Spirit's operation:
ie., the New man, the New nature, in all its manifestations. This New
nature is constantly spoken of as “spirit” (see Rom. 8:1-15), just as the
Old nature is spoken of as “flesh.”

For examples of the word “spirit” being put for the work of the Holy
Spirit within man, see Psa. 51:17 (19). Isa. 26:9. Eze. 18:31. Mat. 5:3;
Mat. 26:41. Act. 17:16; Act. 19:21; Act. 20:22. Rom. 1:9. 1Co. 5:3-5;
1Co. 6:20. 1Pe. 3:4, etc.

Rom. 8:2.-“For the law of the spirit of life (/.e., not the Holy Spirit, but
His life-giving work in the New nature created within us) hath made
me free from the law of sin and death.”

The Law brought the knowledge of sin; and its wages-death. But
the work of the Holy Spirit has freed me from that Law, and has given
me a new nature, by which | serve and obey Him from a totally
different motive.

3. The Spirit is put for special and extraordinary operations of the

Spirit acting externally in various ways, publicly or privately
Num. 11:17.-“I will take of the spirit which is upon thee and will put it
upon them”: {6., not the Person of the Holy Spirit, but His operations,
enabling Moses, and afterwards the seventy elders, to rule the
People.

The history goes on to tell how Joshua would have had two of
them forbidden! True specimen of official religion to-day, and through
all time; ever ready to forbid the use of spiritual powers and gifts that
come out of the ordinary course!

Eldad and Medad are types of what has been true from that time
till the present day.
2Ki. 2:9.-“Let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me”: i.e., of thy
miraculous gifts, spiritual powers. It was so: and it was so shown; for
while Elijah’s miracles were eight in number, Elisha’s were sixteen.*
[Note: See Number in Scripture, by the same author and publisher,
page 202.]

Dan. 5:12; Dan. 6:3.-“Because an excellent spirit ... was in him”: i.e.,
the wonderful and extraordinary operations of the Spirit were manifest
in him.

Joh. 7:39.-“This spake he of the Spirit”: i.e., this outflow of spiritual
power mentioned in verse 38. A person could not flow out from
another person.

Luk. 1:17.-“And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of
Elijah”: i.e., the same wonderful spiritual power should be in John as
was in Elijah. See under Hendiadys.

Luk. 1:80.-“And the child grew and waxed strong in spirit”: i.e., in the
special and peculiar manifestations of the Spirit. So Luk. 2:40.

Act. 1:5.-“Ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost”: i.e., ye shall be
immersed in spiritual “power” (see verse 8), which shall cover you as
well as fill you and flow out from you.

Act. 7:51.-“Ye do always resist the Holy Ghost”: i.e., the testimony of
the Holy Spirit as given by the prophets. Their fathers resisted the
prophets, and would not hear the Spirit's voice in them and now they,
like their fathers, were resisting the same testimony as given at
Pentecost, and since then culminating in Stephen.
The Holy Ghost in His testimony is always resisted by the natural
man: /е., opposed by him. He cannot, of course, be resisted in the
sense of being successfully repelled. The Greek word here is
avtittittTw (antipiptd), to fall against, oppose. It occurs only here, but
the context clearly shows the nature and character of the opposition,
the reference to the “ears” indicating that they refused to listen to His
testimony. The natural ear is always closed against the Divine
testimony, until it is “opened” by One who is stronger than the strong
man armed.
2Co. 3:6.-“Who hath made us competent ministers also of the New
Covenant: not of letter (/.e., the Divine Law of the Old Covenant), but
of spirit (1.6., the ministration of the Spirit, verse 8: the New Covenant
as contained in the Gospel).”

4. The Spirit is put also for special revelations and visions

communicated by Him
Eze. 37:1.-“The hand of the Lord was upon me, and carried me out in
the Spirit of the Lord”: i.e, in a vision.
2 Theas. 2:2.-“That ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled,
neither by spirit ({.6., by a revelation professed to have been received
by the Spirit), nor by word (professed to be spoken by us), nor by
letter as from us (said to be written by us), as that the Day of the Lord
has set in.” For the meaning of this last statement, see the next verse
under Ellipsis, pages 52 and 53.

1Jn. 4:1-3.-“Beloved, believe not every spirit (i.e., every doctrine that
is put forth as the teaching of the Spirit), but try the spirits ({:6., their
teaching and doctrines, Act. 17:11), whether they are of God (or of
demons and evil spirits): because many false prophets are gone out
into the world. Hereby know ye the spirit (or doctrine and teaching) of
God. Every spirit ({6., doctrine) which confesseth (or teacheth) that
Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: and every spirit (or
doctrine) that confesseth not (i.e., that does not teach) that Jesus
Christ is come in the flesh is not of God; and this is that spirit (ie.,
teaching) of Antichrist whereof ye have heard that it should come; and
even now is it in the world.”

As Antichrist himself has not yet come, it must mean his teaching
which is already here. The confusion of the small and capital letters (5
and S) in this passage shows that the translators did not perceive the
Metonymy here used.

Rev. 1:10.- was in spirit.” Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] uses a capital S,
and not a small one as in chap. 4:2; 17:3, and Eze. 37:1, etc., but, the
meaning is the same. “I became in a spiritual vision or ecstasy; or, |
received a spiritual revelation;” which was afterwards written down.
See also Act. 10:10; Act. 22:17, and 2Co. 12:2, where similar visions
and revelations are called a “trance.” There is great divergence of the
use of small and capital letters in all different versions.

5. Parents and Ancestors are frequently put for their posterity,
and for children: and the name of the stock or race is put for the
patronymic

Japhet and Shem are put for their posterity (Gen. 9:27).

Jacob and Israel for the Israelitish people (Exo. 5:2. Num. 21:25;
Num. 24:5; Num. 24:17. Deu. 33:28. 1Ki. 18:17-18. Psa. 14:7; Psa.
135:4. Amo. 7:9).

Isaac for the people of Israel (Amo. 7:9).

Esau for the people descended from Esau (Rom. 9:13).

David is put for him who is descended from David; and therefore
especially of the Messiah, who was of the seed of David according to
the flesh (Eze. 34:23). Compare Rom. 1:3; Rom. 9:5.
Abraham is put for Christ by the same figure of Metonymy. “In thee
shall all families of the earth be blessed”: i.e., in Christ (Gen. 12:3;
Gen. 18:18). So Isaac, 26:4; and Jacob, 28:14. This is explained in
Gal. 3:8; Gal. 3:14; Gal. 3:16. Gen. 22:18. Psa. 72:17. Act. 3:25-26.

6. The Writer is put for his writing or book
Luk. 16:29.-“They have Moses (i.e., his writings) and the prophets
(i.e., their writings); let them hear them.”
See Luk. 24:27. Act. 15:21; Act. 21:21. 2Co. 3:15.
7. To this first species of Metonymy must be referred the use of the
word Soul for life, which is the effect of it
Indeed, when so used, the Hebrew déu (nephesh) and the Greek
ψυχή (pseuchee) are often so translated.

See Gen. 9:5; Gen. 37:21. Exo. 4:19. Lev. 17:11. Jdg. 9:17. 1Sa.
26:21. 1Ki. 2:23. Est. 8:11. Psa. 33:19; Psa. 38:12 (13); 56:13 (14).
Jer. 40:14; Jer. 45:5. Lam. 5:9. Jon. 2:6. Mat. 2:20; Mat. 10:39; Mat.
16:25; Mat. 20:28. Joh. 10:17; Joh. 12:25; Joh. 13:37-38; Joh. 15:13,
etc.

8. The Soul is also put for the person, as when we say a city contains
so many thousand souls
We have examples in such phrases as “Praise the Lord, O my soul”
(1Θ., О myself) (Psa. 103:1, etc.); or, “My soul doth (i.e., | myself do)
magnify the Lord” (Luk. 1:46); or, “Thou wilt not leave my soul (i.e.,
me) in Sheol” (Psa. 16:10. Act. 2:27; Act. 2:31. See Psa. 49:15.
Hebrews 16). Rev. 6:9 : “I saw the souls of them that were beheaded”:
ie., | saw them (i.e., the persons of them) that were slain.” Compare
20:4.
9. The Soul is also put for the will, affection, or desire, which are its
operations and effects:-
Gen. 23:8. Exo. 23:9. Deu. 23:24. 1Ki. 19:3. Pro. 23:2. Jer. 34:16. Joh.
10:24.
10. The word spirit is sometimes so used for the soul or life in its
manifestations:-
Gen. 45:27. Num. 14:24. Jdg. 8:3. 2Ch. 21:16; 2Ch. 36:22. Ezr. 1:1.
Psa. 76:12 (13); 77:3 (4), 6 (7). Pro. 1:23; Pro. 18:14; Pro. 29:11. Ecc.
7:9. Isa. 29:10. Jer. 51:11. Eze. 13:3. Dan. 2:1; Dan. 2:3. Hag. 1:14.
Rom. 11:8. 1Co. 2:12.
ii. The ORGANIC CAUSE or instrument is put for the thing
effected by it
1. The Organs of Speech are put for the testimony borne
The Mouth is put for the witness or testimony borne by it.
Deu. 17:6.-“At the mouth ({6., on the testimony) of two witnesses or
three shall he ... be put to death.” So Deu. 19:15, and Mat. 18:16.
The Mouth is put for the command or precept given.

Gen. 45:21.-“And Joseph gave them wagons, according to the mouth
(1Θ., commandment, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) of Pharaoh.”
Exo. 17:1.-Israel journeyed “according to the mouth (i.e,
commandment, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) of Jehovah.” So Num. 3:16; Num.
3:39; Num. 20:24; Num. 27:14. Deu. 1:26; Deu. 1:43.
Deu. 34:5.-“So Moses ... died there according to the mouth ({6., the
word) of Jehovah.”

The Targum of Jonathan takes this literally (or as
Anthropopathpoeia, q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.] ), and interprets it as a
kiss!

The Tongue is put for what is spoken by it.
Psa. 5:9 (10).-“They flatter with their tongue”: i.e., with what it says.
Pro. 25:15.-“A soft tongue (i.e., gentle speech) breaketh the bone”
(1Θ., overcomes obstinacy).

Pro. 10:20.-“The tongue (i.e., the words or speech) of the just is as
choice silver.”

Jer. 18:18.-“Let us smite him with the tongue”: i.e., with hard words.
The Tongue is also put for the language peculiar to any people or
nation.

Act. 2:4.-“They ... began to speak with other tongues”: i.e., in other
languages). So verse 11. Mar. 16:17. 1Co. 14:18.
The Lip is put for the language.

Gen. 11:1.-“And the whole earth was of one lip ({6., language) and of
one speech.”
Pro. 12:19.-“The lip (/е., speech) of truth shall be established for
ever.”

Verse 22: “Lying lips (ie., liars or lies) are abomination to the
Lord.”
Pro. 14:8.-“The lips of knowledge”: i.e., the words of wisdom, or wise
words.
Pro. 17:7.-“Excellent lip (i.e., speech) becometh not a fool; much less
does a lip of lying a prince”: i.e., lying words. So Pro. 18:6-7.
Isa. 33:19.-“A people deeper of lip ({6., speech) than to be
understood.”

The Palate is put for the words spoken.
Pro. 5:3.-“Her palate is smoother than oil”: i.e., her speech.
The Throat also is put for the words spoken.

Psa. 5:9 (10).-“Their throat (i.e., their speech) is an open sepulchre.”
So Rom. 3:13, explained by Luk. 11:44.

2. The Hand is put for the actions performed by it
These are many and various; as finding, counselling, thought,
purpose, impulse, effort, attempt, or care. The “hand” is put by
Metonymy for all these and similar things.
Deu. 32:36.-“When he seeth that their hand was gone.” This is rightly
rendered “power”; for which the “hand” is put by Metonymy.
1Sa. 22:17.-Saul said, “Turn, and slay the priests of the Lord; because
their hand ({6., help) is with David, and because they knew him when
he fled, and did not show it to me”: i.e., the priests helped David with
their counsel, and with food; and by silence, in not betraying him. All
this is contained in, and expressed by, the word “hand.”
2Sa. 3:12.-“My hand (i.e., my help) shall be with thee.”
2Sa. 14:19.-“Is not the hand (i.e., the counsel) of Joab with thee in all
this?”
1Ki. 10:29.-“And so for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of
Syria, did they bring them out by their hand” (i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , by
their means).
Psa. 7:3 (4).-“O Jehovah my Elohim, if | have done this: if there be
iniquity in my hands”: {6., if | have done iniquity. So Isa. 1:15.

The Hand is also put for instrumentality or agency, especially in

connection with /nspiration.

Ezr. 9:10-11.-“Thy commandments which thou hast commanded by
the hand (i.e, the agency) of thy servants the prophets.”

In all these cases there is an implied reference to testimony
preserved in writing.
Neh. 9:30.-“Thou testifiedst against them by thy Spirit in (or by) the
hand (i.e., the agency) of thy prophets.”
Zec. 7:12.-“The words which the Lord of hosts hath sent in (or by) His
Spirit by the hand of the former prophets”: {6., by their agency.

This is the testimony of one of the latter prophets to the Inspiration
of the “former”: viz., Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings.

The Hand is also put for the writing done by it or hand-writing. As we
say of one “he writes a good hand.”
See 1Co. 16:21. Col. 4:18.
The Hand is also put for a gift given to anyone.
Psa. 68:31 (32).-“Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God”:
ie., shall bring presents, as in Psa. 68:29, of which this is the
continuation. As further explained in Psa. 72:10. Isa. 49:7; Isa. 60:6;
Isa. 60:9. Psa. 22:27 (28).

3. The Sword is put for war or for slaughter
Exo. 5:3.-“Lest he fall upon us with pestilence, or with sword”: i.e.,
with slaughter.
Lev. 26:6.-“Neither shall the sword (i.e, war) go through your land.”

So Isa. 1:20. Jer. 14:12-13; Jer. 14:15-16; Jer. 43:11. Psa. 144:10.

Rom. 8:35, and many other, passages.
Mat. 10:34.-Ч came not to send peace, but a sword” (i.e., but for war).
That is to say, the object of His coming was peace, but the effect of it
was war.
4. A Line is used for the territory divided up or marked out by it
Amo. 7:17.-“Thy land shall be divided by line”: i.e., divided up among
others.

Mic. 2:5.-“Thou wilt have none that shall cast a cord by lot in the
congregation of Jehovah.”

The land in Palestine round each village was divided by lot for the
year, for each family to sow and reap. Referring to this, David says,
“The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places,” and then he goes on
to explain it, “Yea, | have a goodly heritage” (Psa. 16:6).

Hence the word “line” is used of an inheritance measured out See
Deu. 3:4 (where it is rendered “region”). Jos. 17:14. Psa. 105:11 (the
lot of your inheritance).

In this sense Israel was (among the other nations) the line or lot of
Jehovah's inheritance. Deu. 32:8-9.
20ο. 10:16.-“In another man’s line”: /е., in another man’s inheritance
or sphere of labour.

Psa. 19:4 (5).-“Their line is gone out through all the earth.” The A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] interprets the Metonymy incorrectly in the margin, “their rule or
direction.” \t is their inheritance: i.e., the whole earth was the sphere
through which their words and speech went forth, and where the
knowledge imparted by the stars was made known. See Rom. 10:18.*
[Note: And The Witness of the Stars, by the same author and
publisher.]

5. Silver is put for the thing procured by it
Exo. 21:21.-Where a servant is said to be the money of the master.

6. Hyssop is put for the sprinkling which was effected by it
Hyssop ({ό/6) a small humble moss-like shrub (1Ki. 4:33; ΚΙ. 5:13)
used in ceremonial sprinklings. See Lev. 14:4. Num. 19:18, etc.

Psa. 51:7 (9).-“Purge me with hyssop, and | shall be clean”: {6., purge
me with the atoning blood; not with the herb.
iii. The THING or ACTION is put for that which is the effect or
product of it
Some Rhetorists confine Metonymy only to nouns, and deny its
application to verbs. But there seem to be certain words, even verbs,
the use of which cannot otherwise be classed except under the figure
Metonymy: words which, if not actually changed for or strictly used
instead of others, are yet analagous, and have the meaning of another
word taken conventionally with them; so that a thing or action is put for
some effect which is understood as being consequent upon it.

1. In certain NOUNS, where the Feeling or Affection is put for the

effects resulting or proceeding from the feeling
Love is put for the benefits and blessings flowing from it.
1Jn. 3:1.-“Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed
upon us”: i.e., not merely the feeling of love, but the manifestation of it
in all that it has done for us: one thing here being the calling and
making lost sinners the sons of God, and blessing them with all
spiritual blessings in Christ.
Mercy is put for the offices and benefits which are the outcome of it.

Gen. 20:13.-"This is thy kindness which thou shalt show, etc.”
Gen. 32:10.-“I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies and of all
the truth, which thou hast showed unto thy servant”: i.e., all the
material and spiritual benefits bestowed in kindness and faithfulness.
2Ch. 35:26.-“Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his goodness”
(marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] Heb. kindnesses): i.e., his acts of
kindness.

By the same figure the Greek ἑλεημοσύνη (pity, or mercy) is put for
benefits bestowed upon the poor.
Mat. 6:1.-“Take heed that ye do not your alms.” The R.V. [Note: The

Revised Version, 1881.] and Critical Texts (G. [Note: . Griesbach and

his critical Greek Text.] L. [Note: . Lachmann and his critical Greek

Text.] T. [Note: . Tischendorf and his critical Greek Text.] Tr. [Note: r.

Tregelles and his critical Greek Text.] A. [Note: . Alford and his critical

Greek Text.] ) have δικαιοσύνη (dikaiosunee), righteousness, instead

of ἐλεημοσύνη (elesmosunee), mercy. The reading doubtless arose

from some scribe’s not seeing the Metonymy, and trying to explain it.
In either case the feeling is put for the acts which manifest it. So

Luk. 11:41. Act. 10:2; Act. 10:4.

Anger and Wrath are put for punishment, and various acts which flow

from them.

Psa. 79:6.-“Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known

thee”: i.e., thy judgments. So 1Sa. 28:18.

Mic. 7:9.-“I will bear the indignation of Jehovah”: ie., the

chastisements which it inflicts.

Rom. 2:5.-Thou “treasurest up unto thyself wrath”: i.e., the judgments

produced by it.
Rom. 4:15.-“The law worketh wrath”: ie., inflicts or executes
punishments and penalties. The word “execute” is actually supplied in
Rom. 13:4.

Rom. 13:5.-“Wherefore ye must needs be subject, not only for wrath”:
i.e., on account of the effects of the anger, etc., of those who govern,
“but also for conscience sake”: {6., because ye believe it to be right
according to the will of God.

Eph. 5:6.-“For because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon
the children of disobedience”: {6., the punishments inflicted by God on
account of His wrath.

Justice is put for the judgment or punishment which manifests it.
Exo. 6:6.-“I will redeem you with a stretched-out arm and with great
justice”: {6., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] , judgments. As rendered in Pro. 19:29.
Eze. 14:21, etc.

It is put also for the actual sentence and condemnation.

Jer. 26:11.-“The judgment (/.e., the sentence) of death is for this man.”
This Metonymy is idiomatically rendered in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] So Joh. 3:19
(κρίσις, krisis, the act or process of judging).

Sin and its synonyms are put for the effects or punishment of sin.
Gen. 19:15.-“Lest thou be condemned in the iniquity’: ie.,
punishment, as in margin of A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] So Psa. 7:16 (17).

Jer. 14:16.- will pour their wickedness upon them”: ie., the
punishment on account of their wickedness.
Zec. 14:19.-“This shall be the sin (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ) of
Egypt”: i.e., the punishment for Egypt's sin.

When joined with the verb to bear (i.e., to bear iniquity), it means
to bear the punishment or judgment for iniquity, etc. See Exo. 28:43.
Lev. 5:1; Lev. 20:20; Lev. 22:9. Num. 14:33. Isa. 53:4. Eze. 23:35;
Eze. 23:49; Eze. 18:20.

When Christ is said to bear our sins, it means that He bore
thepunishment (i.e., death) which was due to them. Heb. 9:28. 1Pe.
2:24, etc.
Work is put for the wages paid for it.

Lev. 19:13.-Heb. work; A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , wages.
Jer. 22:13.-“And doth not give him his work”: i.e., Heb. his wage. A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] : “for his work.”
Rom. 11:6.-“If by grace, then is it no more of works”: i.e., of wages or
merit.
Rev. 14:13.-“And their works (i.e., their rewards) do follow with them.”

Divination is put for the money received for it.
Num. 22:7.-“So the elders departed with divinations in their hands.”
Here, both A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] do
not scruple to boldly translate the Metonymy and put “the rewards of
divination.”
Labour is put for that which is produced by it.

Deu. 28:33.-“All thy labours shall a nation which thou knowest not eat
up”: {9., all the fruit of thy labours.
Psa. 78:46.-“He gave ... their labour unto the locust”: {6., the fruit of
their labour.
Psa. 105:44.-“They inherited the labour of the people.”
Psa. 128:2.-“Thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands”: i.e., that which
the labour of thy hands has produced.
Pro. 5:10.-“Lest ... thy labours be in the house of a stranger”: i.e., that
which thou hast made or produced.

So Ecc. 2:19. Isa. 45:14. Jer. 3:24. Eze. 23:29.
Strength is put for that which it effects or produces.
Gen. 4:12.-“When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield
unto thee her strength”: i.e., her fruits shall not be brought forth freely
and liberally to thee.
Pro. 5:10.-“Lest strangers be filled with thy strength”: i.e., that which
thy strength brings forth. A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] : wealth.
Hunting is put for the flesh of the animal that is caught.
Gen. 25:28.-“And Isaac loved Esau because hunting was in his
mouth.” Here, the mouth is put for the eating which it performed, and
hunting for the venison which it caught. See also under Ellipsis, page
26.
Gen. 27:3.-‘Hunt me a hunting”: i.e., catch or take for me some
venison (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] ). See Polyptoton, page 275.
2. In certain VERBS
The same Metonymy is seen in certain verbs, but it is confined to
verbs of (a) Knowing, (b) Remembering, (c) Loving and Hating, and
(d) Operation.
(a) Verbs of Knowing
are used of the effect of knowing: i.e., understanding, caring for,
approving, etc.
Job. 19:25.-“I know that my redeemer liveth”: {6., | believe, or have a
saving knowledge of the fact.
Psa. 1:6.-“The Lord knoweth ({6., approveth) the way of the
righteous.” So Rev. 2:24.
Psa. 9:10 (11).-“They that know thy name will put their trust in thee”:
i.e., they that understand Thee as their God and Saviour.
Psa. 35:11.-‘False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things
that | knew not”: i.e., things which | was not conscious of, or did not
acknowledge as true. So Psa. 51:3 (5). 2Co. 5:21.
Psa. 90:11.-“Who knoweth ({6., Who rightly considers) the power of
thine anger?” Many may hear of it and know of it in the ordinary sense
of the verb, but who rightly estimates it and understands it?
Pro. 24:23.-“It is not good to know (or discern) faces in (giving) the
judgment”: i.e., to have respect or show favour to them. See Deu. 1:17
(marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ) and 16:19. Job. 34:19.

Isa. 1:3.-“Israel doth not know.” The next parallel line goes on to
explain it:-“My people doth not consider.” So Jer. 8:7. Luk. 19:42 (cf.
[Note: f. Compare (for Latin, confer).] Psa. 101:4). This comes also
under the figure Exergasia (q.v. [Note: Which see] )

Jer. 9:24.-“Let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth
and knoweth me”: /.е., loves me and believes me. Compare verses 3
and 6.

Jer. 31:34.-“They shall all know me”: {6., believe in me with a saving
faith.

Joh. 8:43.-“Ye cannot hear (i.e., receive, and understand, and
approve) my word.” See verse 44.
Joh. 10:27.-“My sheep hear my voice, and | know them”: {6., | love
them with all a shepherd’s fondness.
Joh. 17:3.-‘This is life eternal that they might know (i.e., believe on)
thee-the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.”
Act. 10:34.-"I perceive (i.e., | now understand and am made to know
from what has taken place) that God is no respecter of persons.”
Rom. 7:15.-“For that which | do | know not.” Here, the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
translates the Metonymy, “that which | do | allow not”: i.e., | do not
approve. The old Eng. of the verb allow is allaud, to praise or approve,
as in Psa. 11:5. Prayer Book (i.e., Coverdale’s) Version: “The Lord
alloweth the righteous”: i.e., approveth him.
1Со. 8:3.-“If any man love God, the same is known of him”: {8., is
loved and cared for by Him (see Heterosis of the verb).

Verbs of Knowing are sometimes put for caring for or manifesting

affection to.

Gen. 39:6.-“He (Potiphar) knew not ought he had”: i.e., had no anxiety
about it.
Exo. 2:25.-“And God knew them”: i.e, as in AV. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , had
respect unto them.
Deu. 33:9.-“Neither did he acknowledge his brethren, nor knew ({6.,
cared for) his own children.”

So Rth. 2:10; Rth. 2:19.
Jdg. 2:10.-“There arose another generation after them, which knew
not the Lord”: {.6., which did not care for Him.
1Ch. 17:18.-“Thou knowest (i.e., hast respect to) thy servant.”
Psa. 37:18.-“The Lord knoweth the days of the upright”: ᾖθ., has
respect to them and acts accordingly.
Psa. 142:4 (5).-“There was no man that would know me”: i.e., that
would care for me. See under Ellipsis.
Pro. 12:10.-“A righteous man knoweth the life of his beast”: i.e., he
regardeth and careth for it.
Pro. 29:7.-“The righteous knoweth (A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , considereth) the
cause of the poor.”
Jer. 1:5.-“Before | formed thee in the belly | knew thee”: i.e., cared for

and loved thee.

Jer. 24:5.-“So shall | know (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or

current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , acknowledge) them that are

carried away captive.”

Amo. 3:2.-“You only have | known of all the families of the earth”: i.e.,

loved and cared for. Cf. [Note: f. Compare (for Latin, confer).] Deu.

4:20.

1Th. 5:12.-“We beseech you, brethren, to know them which labour

among you”: i.e., to consider and care for them.

2Ti. 2:19.-“The Lord knoweth (i.e., loves and cares for) them that are

his.” See also under Heterosis.

Verbs of Knowing are used also of experiencing, either by saving faith
or by personal dealing.

Isa. 53:11.-“By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify

many”: i.e., knowledge of Him and the salvation which He gives. See

Luk. 1:77. “To give knowledge of salvation.”

Mat. 7:11.-“If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto
your children,” etc.: i.e., are able, notwithstanding all your innate
blindness, to understand enough, in spite of your selfishness, to give
good gifts, etc.

Mar. 5:29.-“And she knew (ἔγνω) by her body (i.e., by the sensations
of it) that she was healed of that plague”: i.e. (as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ), “she
felt.” She experienced, just as the Lord Himself did in verse 30, where
we have the same verb used of Him: “knowing in Himself” (ἐπιγνούς).
1Co. 4:19.-“But | will come to you shortly, if the Lord will, and will know
(i.e., will find out and expose) not the speech of them which are puffed
up, but the power.”
20ο. 1:9.-“We had the sentence of death in ourselves”: ᾖθ., we
experienced the feelings of those who have had the sentence of death
pronounced upon them.
(b) Verbs of Remembering
are used of a strong desire or wish for the thing mentioned or
remembered.
Isa. 44:21.-“Remember these, O Jacob and Israel ... thou shalt not be
forgotten of me”: i.e., desire the things which make for your peace,
etc.
Eze. 23:19.-“Yet she multiplied her whoredoms, in calling to
remembrance the days of her youth, wherein she had played the
harlot in the land of Egypt”: i.e., in desiring again the former sins.
Jon. 2:7 (8).-“When my soul fainted within me, | remembered the
Lord” (and therefore desired Him, and called upon Him).
2Ti. 2:8.-“Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was
raised from the dead according to my Gospel”: i.e., Believe and enjoy,
and rest in, the blessed knowledge of the fact.

Heb. 11:15.-“If they had been mindful of that country from whence
they came out”: i.e., if they had longed for it, or desired to return to it,
they could have done so. This is clear from the verb to “desire” in
verse 16.

So the noun is used of the Lord’s Supper, “in remembrance of Me”:
ie., not a mere calling to mind, but that which is produced by such
remembrance: viz., faith, love, hope, which are all bound up in that
acknowledgment of Christ's death (Luk. 22:19. 1Со. 11:24-25).
Hitherto they had celebrated their deliverance from Egypt. Henceforth
they were to remember Christ, and the exodus which He
accomplished, and to desire His return, looking for it with loving hope.

On the other hand, the verb to forget is used of unfaithfulness, and
rejection.
Hos. 4:6.-“Seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, | will also
forget thy children”: i.e., seeing thou hast been unfaithful to me, and
will reject thy children.
(c) Verbs of Loving and Hating
are put for the actions consequent upon them.

To Love is put for to expect, or desire, or take.
Psa. 11:5.-“Him that loveth violence (i.e., and hence practises it) his
soul hateth.”
Pro. 21:17.-“He that loveth (and therefore liveth in) pleasure shall be a
poor man,” etc. He would not be poor unless he gratified his love of
pleasure by spending his substance.
Mat. 6:5.-“They love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the
corners of the streets,” and they do it because they love it.
Luk. 11:43.-“Ye love the uppermost seats in the synagogues”: i.e., ye
not only love them, but take them because ye love them.
Joh. 3:19.-“Men loved darkness rather than light”: (and practised, and
lived, and acted, accordingly).
2Ti. 4:8.-“All them also that love His appearing” (and act, and live,
accordingly).
2Ti. 4:10.-“Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world”:
(and returned to it).

To Love is used of the exercise of the greatest possible care for
whatever is the object of the love. While {ο hate is used in the opposite
sense, of exercising less care, or of neglect.
Gen. 29:31.-“And when the Lord saw that Leah was hated”: i.e.,
neglected, and the other more esteemed. See verse 30.
By some this is called Hyperbole (q.v. [Note: Which see-] ).
Joh. 12:25.-“He that loveth his life shall lose it”: {6., that cares more
for his life than for Christ. See under Ellipsis and Hyperbole.
This is the explanation of Mat. 16:25, where it reads, “whosoever
shall save his life”: i.e., shall care more for it, and preserve it, instead
of giving it up for Christ. Compare Luk. 14:26.

To Love is used not merely for the act itself, but for the effect of it.
Psa. 109:17.-“As he loved cursing”: i.e., not merely loved to do it, but
did it.

Pro. 13:24.-“He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth
him chasteneth him betimes”: i.e., his love takes effect, and is seen, in
the chastening.
Pro. 18:19.-“He loveth trangression that loveth strife’: ie, he
trangresses who strives, for He does it because he loves to do it.
Pro. 8:36.-“All they that hate me love death”: i.e., so live and act as to
injure life and accelerate death.
(d) Verbs of Operation
The verb to do often denotes the effect rather than the act.
Gen. 12:5.-“The souls that they had gotten (Heb., made) in Haran”:
ie., the servants which they had acquired in Haran. Thus the
Metonymy is here translated by the word “gotten.”

Gen. 30:30.-“And now when shall | do for my house also?” The A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] translates the Metonymy by the verb “provide”: “when shall |
provide?” etc.

Mat. 25:16.-“He that had received the five talents went and traded
with the same and made them (i.e., gained) other five talents,” as
explained in verse 20.

Certain Verbs have not their own proper signification, but are used of

the actions or effects consequent upon them:
To Judge is put for punish or condemn.

Gen. 15:14.-“That nation whom they serve shall | judge”: i.e., punish
with judgments, not simply rule. Act. 7:7.

2Ch. 20:12.-“O our God, wilt thou not judge them?” i.e., punish them.
Psa. 9:19 (20).-“Let the heathen be judged in thy sight.”
Heb. 13:4.-“Whoremongers and adulterers God will judge”: i.e.,
punish. See also Joh. 3:18 and Rom. 14:3.
To Judge is also used in the sense of acquit, which is also an effect of
judging. See
Psa. 35:24.-“Judge me, О Lord my God”: {6., acquit me.
To Hurt or even to Injure is put for the Aurt or injury done.

Luk. 10:19.-“Nothing shall by any means hurt you”: {Θ., have any
injurious effect upon you.
Rom. 8:31.-“If God be for us, who can be against as?” i.e., who can
hurt us or bring any evils upon us? They can, of course, be “against
us,” but not have any hurtful effect.

iv. The MATERIAL is put for the thing made of or from it

1. Trees are put for arms or instruments made from them
Nah. 2:3 (4).-“The fir-trees shall be terribly shaken.” The context
shows that “trees” are put for the spears, etc., which men make from
them.
2Sa. 6:5.-“And David and all the house of Israel played before the
Lord on all fir-woods.” The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] both treat this as though it were an Ellipsis: “on all
manner of instruments made of firwood,” instead of seeing the
Metonymy and saying simply, “On all manner of instruments,” which
are immediately mentioned: viz., harps and psalteries. But according
to a note in Dr. Ginsburg’s Hebrew Bible, the Septuagint reads with all
might and with songs instead of “on all manner of fir-woods.” Compare
verse 14 and 1Ch. 13:8.

2. Brass is put for fetters, etc
Lam. 3:7.-“He hath made my brass heavy”: i.e., my fetters, or bonds,
or chains.
Jdg. 16:21.-“And bound him with two brasses”: /е., two brazen
fetters.
2Sa. 3:34.-“Thy hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into brasses”:
ie., fetters, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.]
3. Curtains are put for tents
2Sa. 7:2.-“The ark of God dwelleth within curtains”: i.e., in the curtain
or tent.
Jer. 4:20.-“Suddenly are my tents spoiled, and my curtain ({Θ., my
tabernacle or dwelling) in a moment.”
Hab. 3:7.-“And the curtains (i.e., tents) of Midian’s land did tremble.”
4. Corn is put for bread or food generally
Lam. 2:12.-“They say to their mothers, Where is corn (i.e., bread) and
wine?”
5. Gold and Silver and other metals and similar substances are put for
what is made with them
Gen. 23:9.-“That he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he
hath, which is in the end of his field, for silver (i.e., money made from
silver) full (i.e., of full value) he shall give it to me in your midst (i.e.,
within your boundaries), for a possession of (i.e., hereditary)
sepulchre.”

Gen. 24:22.-“Of ten gold was their weight”: i.e., bracelets made of
gold, ten shekels in weight.

2Ki. 5:5.-“Six thousand of gold”: i.e., pieces of money.

2Ki. 12:4 (5), where it is rendered “money.”

1Ch. 21:22; 1Ch. 21:24.-“Full silver’: for full money value. In A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] rendered “full price.”

1Ch. 29:2.-Here, the figure is translated by the words “things of’ in
italics. “| have prepared ... the gold for gold (things), and the silver for
silver (things), and the brass for brass (things),” etc.

Psa. 115:4.-“Their idols are silver and gold”: i.e., made of silver and
gold.

Mat. 10:9.-“Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass ({6., money
made from these) in your purses.”

Act. 3:6.-“Silver and gold (i.e., money, like the Scottish “siller’ and
French /’argent) have | none.”
6. Iron is put for things made of it

2Ki. 6:5.-“As one was felling a beam the iron (i.e., the axhead, as the
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] renders it) fell into the water.”
Psa. 105:18.-“Whose foot they hurt with the gyve, his soul came into
iron”: i.e., he was fast bound with iron chains.

7. Stones are put for things made of them
Exo. 7:19.-“Both in woods and in stones”: {6., both in wooden vessels
and stone vessels.
Deu. 25:13.-“Thou shalt not have in thy bag divers stones”: i.e.,
weights. Heb., a stone and a stone.
Pro. 11:1.-“A perfect stone (i.e., a just weight) is his delight.”
Isa. 34:11.-“The stones of emptiness’: i.e., the stones which
characterize waste land.
Jer. 2:27.-“Saying ... to a stone (i.e., to an idol), Thou hast brought me
forth” Jer. 3:9.
Zec. 4:10.-“They shall see the stone of tin (i.e, the plummet) in
Zerubbabel’s hand.”

8. Wood is put for things made of wood
See above Exo. 7:19 (for vessels). Isa. 44:19. Jer. 2:27; Jer. 3:9; Jer.
10:8. Hos. 4:12 (for idols).
Eze. 37:16.-“Take thee one wood and write upon it, ‘For Judah and for
the children of Israel his companions’: then take another wood, and
write upon it, ‘For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house
of Israel his companions’ ”: i.e., take a tablet or stick made out of
wood.
Gen. 40:19.-“Shall hang thee on a tree”: {6., a gallows. So Jos. 8:29.
Deu. 21:22-23. Est. 7:9-10. Gal. 3:13. 1Pe. 2:24.
2Sa. 21:19.-“The wood ({6., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “staff’) of whose spear
was like a weaver’s beam.”
Act. 16:24.-“And made their feet fast in the wood”: i.e “in the stocks,”
as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.]
9. Flax is put for the wick made of it

Isa. 42:3.-“The smoking flax (i.e., wicks) shall he not quench.” See
under Tapeinosis.
Isa. 43:17.-“They are quenched as the flax”: /е., as a wick. (A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
161411, tow).

10. Dust and Ashes for man, who is made of dust
Gen. 3:19.-“Dust thou art”: {6., made of dust.
Gen. 18:27.-“Dust and ashes.” See under Paronomasia.
Psa. 103:14.-“He remembereth that we are dust”: {6., made of dust.
Ecc. 12:7.-‘Then shall the dust ({6., man) return to the earth as it
was.”
11. Seed is put for son or posterity

Gen. 4:25.-“God ... hath appointed me another seed”: i.e., son.

Gen. 15:13.-“Thy seed shall be a stranger,” etc. So Act. 7:6; where the
period of sojourning is stated to be 400 years. Whereas, in Exo. 12:40,
and Gal. 3:17, where the period refers not to the sojourning of
Abraham's seed (which could not commence till Isaac was born, thirty
years after the promise), but includes that of Abraham himself, the
sum is given as 430 years.

12. Forest or wood is put for the houses, etc., made of its trees
Jer. 21:14; Jer. 22:7 : compare these with Jer. 52:13. 2Ki. 25:9 and
2Ch. 36:19, and the figures in the last two passages will be explained.

Il. Metonymy of the Effect
This is when the effect is put for the cause producing it. It is of four
kinds: (i.) The action for the actor. (ii.) The thing for the organic cause
of it. (iii.) The effect for the producer of it. (iv.) The matter made for the
material cause of it. We will consider these in their order:-
i. The ACTION or the EFFECT for the person producing the effect,
or for the author of it

1. Nouns
Gen. 25:23.-“Two nations are in thy womb”: i.e., two infants whose
progeny should become two different nations.
Gen. 26:35.-“Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah”:
ie., the source of much sorrow to them.
Gen. 49:18.-“I have waited for thy salvation (i.e., for Him who shall
bring and work salvation), O Lord.”
Neh. 12:31; Neh. 12:38; Neh. 12:40.-“Two great celebrations.” The
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] have
supplied the words implied by the Metonymy (the former in italics, the
latter in roman type), by rendering “two great companies of them that
gave thanks.” The effect of the praises or thanks, is put for the people
who rendered them.
Psa. 18:1 (2).-“I will love thee, О Jehovah my strength”: i.e., the
author and source of my strength. So Psa. 22:19 (20). Jer. 16:19.
Psa. 27:1.-“The Lord is my light and my salvation.” This is not a
Metaphor but a Metonymy: i.e., Jehovah is the source of my light, and
the author of my salvation. Compare Heb. 5:9.

Psa. 106:20.-“Thus they changed their glory (i.e., God) into the
similitude of an ox that eateth grass.”

The Massorah records this as one of the passages in which the
Sopherim changed the pronoun “my” into “their.” It was thought to be
too gross an anthropomorphism to say “my,” Jehovah being the
speaker. See Appendix E.

Isa. 49:6.-“That thou mayest be my salvation (i.e., the Saviour whom |
have sent) unto the end of the earth.”

Jer. 23:6.-“Jehovah our Righteousness”: ᾖθ., the Author of our
righteousness: our Justifier.

Mar. 9:17; Mar. 9:25.-“A dumb spirit”: i.e., a spirit which produced the
effect of dumbness in the person possessed.
Luk. 11:14.-“And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb”: i.e., it
produced dumbness in the man possessed. Compare Mat. 9:32-33.
Mar. 9:17; Mar. 9:25.

Luk. 2:30.-“Mine eyes have seen thy salvation”: i.e., Christ the
Saviour: the Worker and Author of Salvation. Luk. 3:6 and Isa. 49:6.
Luk. 13:11.-“And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of
infirmity.” The negative uf (mee) implies that she felt unable to
straighten herself up,* [Note: The Greek of this is jie <6 otic 7 (eis
to panteles), which occurs only here and Heb. 7:25. Here, to her full
height; there, to their full need.] and indicates some nervous disorder.
So the Lord uses the remarkable language about Satan as binding
her.

This is not Enallage, “an infirm spirit,” but it is Metonymy, by which
the effect is put for the cause. The woman was troubled by a spirit
which caused or produced this infirmity.

Joh. 11:25.-“l am the resurrection and the life”: i.e., the Worker of
resurrection, and the Giver of resurrection life.

Rom. 13:3.-“Rulers are not a terror”: {.6., a source of terror.

2Со. 1:14.-“We are your rejoicing (i.e., cause of rejoicing), even as ye
also are ours in the day of the Lord Jesus.” So 1Th. 2:19-20.
Rev. 1:12.-“And | turned to see the voice (/е., Him) that spake with
me.” So Joh. 1:23.

2. Verbs
Gen. 42:38.-“Shall ye bring down,” etc.: {6., shall be the cause of my
death. See under Periphrasis.
Gen. 43:6.-“Why have ye done evil to me, to disclose to the man that
ye had yet another brother?” {6., why have you brought or caused all
this evil to be brought upon me.
Exo. 23:8.-“The gift blindeth the wise, and perverteth the words of the
righteous”: i.e., is an occasion by which these effects are produced.
1Ki. 18:9.-“What have | sinned, that thou wouldest deliver thy servant
(i.e., cause to be delivered) into the hand of Ahab to slay me?”
Psa. 76:10 (11).-“Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee”: i.e., shall
be the occasion of praise to thee.
Isa. 43:24.-“Thou hast made me to serve with thy sins”: i.e., thy sins
have caused the hard service and Passion which | endured on
account of them.
Jer. 38:23.-“Thou shalt burn this city with fire”: i.e., thou shalt cause it
to be burnt. See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] margin.
Eze. 19:7.-“He laid waste their cities”: i.e., their sins caused them to
be destroyed.
Act. 1:18.-“Now this man purchased (i.e., caused to be purchased) a
field.”
Rom. 14:15.-“Destroy not him with thy meat for whom Christ died”:
ie., do not be a cause of destruction.
1Co. 7:16.-“For what knowest thou, О wife, whether thou shalt save
(i.e., be the means of salvation or the occasion of much blessing to)
thy husband?” etc. See 1Pe. 3:1.
ii. The THING EFFECTED by an instrument for the instrument or
organic cause of it

Gen. 49:6.-Lit., “My soul (i.e., myself, I) will not come into their secret
(counsel), mine honour shall not be with them in their assembly.”

Here, “honour” is put for the tongue which gives it; and it means
that he would not honour them by speaking or taking part in their
assembly. Compare Psa. 57:8; Psa. 108:1.

Deu. 24:6.-“No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to
pledge: for he taketh a man’s life to pledge.” Here “life,” the effect, is
put for the means of livelihood by which the life is preserved.

Psa. 7:5 (6).-“Let him ... lay mine honour in the dust”: /.e., myself who
gives honour.

Psa. 16:9.-“Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth”: {6.,
my tongue gives glory, as is explained in Act. 2:26.
Psa. 30:12 (13).-“To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee and
not be silent.”

Here, the word “glory” may be put for the tongue which gives it: but
the structure of the Psalm suggests another explanation of the
Metonymy. This verse corresponds, in the structure, with verse 4:
“Sing to Jehovah, O ye saints of His.” Compare 2Co. 8:23.

So that verse 12 would be “To the end that Thy saints may sing
praise to Thee”: “glory” being put for the saints who give the glory.
Psa. 57:8 (9).-“Awake up, my glory”: i.e., my tongue, wake up and
glorify God.

Pro. 27:27.-“And thou shalt have goats’ milk enough for thy food, for
the food of thy household, and for the life (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] )
of thy maidens”: i.e., as the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] renders it, “for the
maintenance of thy maidens.”

Mar. 12:44.-“She of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her
living (or life)”: i.e., all her means of supporting herself in life.

Luk. 15:12.-“And he divided unto them his living (or life)’: /е., his
means or property, by which life is sustained. So Mar. 12:44.
Act. 17:31.-Lit., “Whereof he hath given faith to all men.” Here faith,
the effect, is put for the proofs or evidence on which it rests. “Whereof
He hath afforded evidence unto all men”: and then the evidence or
proof is stated, “in that he hath raised him from the dead.” The A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] well render it
“hath given assurance.”

The Resurrection of Christ is the evidence God affords of His
purpose to judge the world by Him.
Rom. 1:16.-“For it [the gospel] is the power of God unto salvation to
every one that believeth”: i.e., the belief is the effect of the power of
God through the preaching of the gospel.
1Jn. 5:4.-“This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our
faith.” “Victory,” the effect, is put for “our faith,” which accomplishes it.
From Eph. 6:16 we learn that it is through Christ; who is the shield
which faith uses.

iii. The EFFECT for the thing or action causing or producing it
(a) In Nouns
Exo. 10:17.-“Intreat the Lord your God, that he may take away from
me this death only”: i.e., this plague which is causing death.
Deu. 30:15.-“I have set before thee this day life and good, and death
and evil”: {6., good things which end in life, and evil things which end
in death. So in Deu. 32:47, and Jer. 21:8, etc.
2Ki. 4:40.-“There is death in the pot”: i.e., there is that which produces
death as the effect of eating it. How forcible is this Metonymy, by the
use of which time is saved, and perhaps life too.
Pro. 10:2.-“Righteousness delivereth from death”: {6., from the things
that end in death.
Pro. 19:13.-“A foolish son is the calamity of his father”: i.e., does that
which brings or produces calamity.
Pro. 20:1.-“Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging.”

Here, wine, etc., is put for its effects. It brings him who drinks to
excess into derision, and causes tumults.
Ecc. 11:1.-“Cast thy bread (i.e., the seed which produces it) upon the
waters.”
Isa. 28:12.-‘This is the rest”: i.e., this is what gives rest.
Jer. 3:24.-“For shame hath devoured the labour of our fathers”: i.e.,
the worship of Baal, which brought upon them shame and sorrow.
Shame is put for an idol or for idolatry in Jer. 11:13 (see margin). Hos.
9:10. See also Jer. 48:13, etc.

Lam. 2:14.-“Thy prophets have seen vain things for thee and
expulsions”: {6., the things which led to expulsion from the land and
captivity.
Eze. 44:18.-“They shall not gird themselves with sweat”: {6., as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] , with anything that causeth sweat. The effect “sweat” being put
for the garments which cause it.

Hos. 4:18.-“Their drink is rebellious, or turned aside”: i.e., has caused
them to turn aside from God. Through not seeing the Metonymy, the
translators try to find other meanings for nf (see text and margin).
The verse refers to Isa. 28:1; Isa. 5:11.

Mic. 1:5.-“What is the transgression of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And
what are the high places of Judah? Are they not Jerusalem?” i.e.,
Samaria and Jerusalem were the cause of the transgression of
Israel:-“What is the cause of Jacob's trangression?”

Hab. 2:5.-“Yea, also because the wine transgresseth”: i.e., the effects
of the wine was transgression; or, “Yea, so surely as wine causeth
trangression.”

Joh. 3:19.-“And this is the judgment”: i.e., the cause of which
judgment or condemnation was the effect: viz., “that light is come into
the world, and men loved darkness rather than light,” etc.

Joh. 12:50.-“And | know that his commandment is life everlasting”:
ie., the effect of it is eternal life.
Joh. 17:3.-“This is life eternal”: i.e., the effect of it is life eternal.

Rom. 6:6.-“The body of sin” is more than “sinful body.” It is more than
mere character. The effect is put for the cause; which is the old nature,
that, through the body, works out sin; and sin is the effect; which is
thus used, here and in other parts of this epistle (chap. 5:12-8:39), for
the old nature itself.

Whereas, in chaps, 1:16-5:11, we have “sins,” as the product of
the Old nature, and the fruit of the old tree, we have, in 5:11-8:39,
“sin,” or the Old nature, which causes and commits the “sins”; and the
old tree itself which produces the fruits.

Rom. 7:7.-15 the law sin? (1.е., Is sin the effect of the law?) God
forbid. But yet | knew not sin except through the law!”

There is no “nay” in the Greek. The word “but” brings out the
meaning: “God forbid that sin should be the effect of the law. But
nevertheless.” So it is.

Rom. 7:24.-“The body of this death”; or, by Hypallage (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]), as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] margin, “this body of death”: in which
case, “of death” is either, by Enallage, put for the adjective “dying,” or
it may be the Metonymy of the effect, and the result “death” put for the
cause-viz., all that leads up to, and ends in, death.

Rom. 8:6.-“To be carnally minded is death (i.e., the cause of death),
but to be spiritually minded is life and peace (i.e., ends in life and
peace or peaceful life).” So verse 10.

1Со. 12:6.-“And there are diversities of operations”: {6., of faculties
and gifts effected by the Divine operations.

1Co. 14:3.-“He that prophesieth speaketh unto men edification, and
exhortation, and comfort”: /е., words which build up, exhort, and
comfort.

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] obtains this meaning by supplying the word “to.”
2Co. 1:10.-“Who delivered us from so great a death”: i.e., from the
persecution or trouble which threatened to kill them, and end in death.
20ο. 11:23.-“In deaths oft.” This cannot, of course, mean that he had
died more than once; but that he had often been at death’s door, and
in troubles which cause or bring about death.
Php. 1:13.-“My bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace”: i.e., the
effect of his preaching made it manifest that his bonds were on
account of his service for Christ, and not for any crimes.
Heb. 6:1.-“Dead works”: /е., works wrought by the Old nature. So
Heb. 9:14, according to Rom. 6:23.
Rev. 6:8.-“And power was given unto them ... to kill with the sword,
and with hunger, and with death”: i.e., with pestilence which produced
death.

(b) In Verbs
Psa. 25:2.-“O my God, | trust in thee: let me not be ashamed, let not
mine enemies triumph over me” (and thus be a cause of my being put
to shame). So verse 20. Psa. 31:1 (2);Psa. 119:116, etc.
Psa. 70:4 (5).-“Let them rejoice and be glad in Thee, all that seek
thee”: i.e., let there be a cause of rejoicing and gladness to all seeking
thee. Through not seeing the Metonymy the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] render it: “Let all those that
seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee.”
The cause and effect are joined together in Psa. 5:11 (12), 12 (13).
Isa. 28:16.-“Не that believeth shall not make haste.”

Here, hastening away or flight is put as the effect for the confusion
and shame which is the cause of it. See Rom. 9:33; Rom. 10:11. 1Pe.
2:6, where the cause is put. The sense is that he that believeth will
have no need of hurried flight, he will wait God’s time.

iv. The THING MADE, for the material from which it is made or

produced

Psa. 74:15.-“Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood”: ᾖ6., the
rock from which the fountain flowed.
Isa. 28:28.-“Bread is bruised”: i.e., the corn of which it is made. The
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] supplies “corn.” The sense is clear from verse 27 and
Job. 28:5. In Psa. 104:14, we have the opposite of this in the
Metonymy of the cause.
Isa. 33:12.-“And the people shall be as the burnings of lime”: i.e., as
fuel for lime-kilns.
Isa. 47:2.-‘Take the millstones and grind meal”: i.e., grind corn, from
which meal is made.
Ill. Metonymy of the Subject
The third division of Metonymy is when the subject is put for the
adjunct: i.e., for some circumstance pertaining to (or joined to) the
subject: e.g., as when the place, or thing containing it, is put for that
which is contained: the possessor for the thing possessed, etc. It is
divided into the five following heads:-
i. The SUBJECT (i.e., the Thing or Action) for that which is
connected with it (i.e., the adjunct)
1. Nouns
Gen. 3:7.-“And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew
that they were naked.” They knew this fact before: but they did not
know all that was connected with it. Their nakedness, after the fall,
received a new meaning.
1Sa. 1:15 - ... have poured out my soul before the Lord”: i.e., my
desires and longings.
1Ch. 12:38.-“All these ... came with a perfect heart”: {6., affections
and desires.
Psa. 7:9.-“God trieth the hearts and reins”: /е., the thoughts and
affections and desires. This is clear from Psa. 51:6 (8); 73:11. Pro.
23:7.
Psa. 16:7.-“My reins (/е., my thoughts) also instruct me in the night
season.”
Psa. 26:2.-“Examine me, О Lord, and prove me: try my reins (/е., my
thoughts) and my heart.”

See also Jer. 11:20; Jer. 17:10; Jer. 20:12. Rev. 2:23.
Psa. 38:8 (9).-“l have roared by reason of the disquietness of my
heart” (i.e., my thoughts).
Psa. 62:9.-“Pour out your heart before Him”: i.e., your thoughts and
desires. So Lam. 2:19.
Psa. 62:10 (11).-“Set not your heart (i.e., your affections) upon them.”
Pro. 6:32.-“Whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh heart.”
(So Heb., see A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] margin). Here heart is put for
“understanding,” as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ; because it is spoken of as the seat
of wisdom and understanding. See Pro. 2:10; Pro. 8:5; Pro. 11:29;
Pro. 15:14; Pro. 16:21.
Pro. 7:7.-“A young man void of heart”: i.e., of understanding.

It is so used in Pro. 9:4; Pro. 9:16; Pro. 10:13; Pro. 10:21.
Pro. 15:32.-“He that heareth reproof possesseth an heart”: /.е., as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] margin, getteth understanding.
Pro. 16:23.-“The heart (i.e., the desires and thoughts) of the wise
maketh wise his mouth”: i.e., his words, by Metonymy of the cause.
See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] margin.
Pro. 22:17.-“Apply thine heart (i.e., thy thoughts and powers) unto my
knowledge.”
Pro. 26:7.-“The legs of the lame are not equal: so is a parable in the
mouth of fools.” So A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.]

R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] : “The legs of the lame
hang loose!” The Heb. is: “The legs of the lame are lifted up” (see A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] margin). Here “legs” are put for the clothes which being lifted
up expose the lameness. So when a fool attempts to utter a parable,
he soon exposes himself.

Pro. 28:26.-“He that trusteth in his own heart (i.e., understanding) is a
fool.”

Isa. 5:21.-“Woe unto them that are ... prudent before their face”: .e.,
in themselves or in their own view of matters. See A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
margin.

Isa. 49:16.-“I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands”: i.e., as
indelible as the lines graven in the palms of the hands, (with which we
are born) will be My remembrance of thee.

Jer. 12:2.-“Thou art near in their mouth (i.e., their words, Met. of
cause), and far from their reins” (i.e., their affections, Met. of subject).
See Isa. 29:13.

Hos. 4:11.-“Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the heart”:
ie., the understanding. That this is meant is clear from chap. 5:11.
Hos. 7:11.-“Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart”: i.e., without
understanding.

Mat. 6:21.-“Where your treasure is, there will your heart (i.e., your
thoughts and affections) be also.”

Mat. 16:19.-“Whatsoever thou ({6., by the word which thou shalt
minister) shalt bind (see Met. of Adjunct below) on earth.” So Mat.
18:18. Whatever this refers to, Peter had neither the power nor the
authority to pass it on to any one else.

Mat. 24:45.-“Who then (i.e., how great and blessed and happy) is a
faithful and wise servant?”

Joh. 20:23.-“Whose soever sins ye (i.e., by the word which ye
minister) remit.” See below under verbs. Whatever this may mean, it
was spoken to the apostles: and it is certain that they had no
commission, authority, or power to pass on that gift to others.

Act. 1:11.-“This same Jesus, which is taken up from you”: i.e., from
your presence and company. So verse 22.

Act. 1:24.-“Thou, Lord, which knowest the hearts (/.e., the thoughts) of
all men,” etc. See Psa. 139:2; Psa. 139:4.
Rom. 6:6.-“Our old man is (Gr., was) crucified with him”: i.e., not a
man really, but our Old nature derived from Adam: our old self with its
desires and qualities and conditions. So Eph. 4:22. Compare Rom.
6:12; Rom. 7:5; Rom. 7:7-8. 2Co. 7:1. Heb. 12:1.
Rom. 15:24.-“If first | be somewhat filled with you”: i.e., your company,
etc., as expressed in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin and verse 32.
Rom. 16:3; Rom. 16:7.-“My helpers in Christ Jesus”: i.e., in the
service of Christ.
20ο. 5:17.-“If any man be in Christ he is a new creature”: i.e., he has
a new nature created within him. Thus a new standing is given to him,
with new thoughts and desires, etc. So Eph. 4:24. Compare Rom.
12:2; Rom. 8:2; Rom. 8:5. 1Pe. 3:4 and Rom. 7:22. 2Co. 4:16.
Gal. 4:15.-“Where is then the blessedness ye spake of”: ᾖθ., how
great was that blessedness ye spake of! for, etc.
Php. 1:21.-“To me to live is Christ’: /е., to serve Christ, to work and
labour for Him.

2. Verbs
Where the action is put for the declaration concerning it: or where
what is said to be done is put for what is declared, or permitted, or
foretold as to be done: or where an action, said to be done, is put for
the giving occasion for such action.

Gen. 2:7.-See below, under Deu. 9:1.

Gen. 27:37.-“Behold, | have made him (Jacob) thy lord”: /е., | have
blessed him; and this was part of the blessing.

Gen. 30:13.-“The daughters will call me blessed”: i.e., | am now a
mother. For the parallels to this see Psa. 72:17. Luk. 1:48.

Gen. 34:12.-“Ask me never so much dowry and gift”: /.е., ask me to
give never so much, etc.

Gen. 35:12.-“And the land which | gave Abraham and Isaac”: i.e.,
which | promised to give, or gave in promise.

Gen. 41:13.-“Me he restored (i.e., declared that | should be restored)
unto mine office, and him he hanged (i.e., declared he should be
hanged).”

Exo. 13:2.-“Sanctify unto me all the first-born”: i.e., declare in My
name to the People that | sanctify (i.e., separate) them, etc. Which
Moses did in verses 11 and 12.
Exo. 20:7.-“The Lord will not make him guiltless”: i.e., will not declare
or pronounce. Or “hold,” as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]

Lev. 13:3.-“And the priest shall look on him, and he shall be unclean
(or “uncleanse him,” for the verb is in the Piel)”: {θ., “he shall
pronounce him unclean,” as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]

Deu. 9:1.-“Hear, О Israel: Thou art to pass over Jordan this day”: i.e.,
it is declared this day that thou art to pass over Jordan.

With this passage compare Gen. 2:17 : “In the day that thou eatest
thereof thou shalt surely die”: {6., not that he should die in that day,
but it should be declared “in that day”: i.e., thou shalt be sentenced to
die.
2Sa. 7:22.-“Wherefore thou art great”: {6., | will declare and praise
Thee as great: or, Thou shalt be known as great.

See other examples in Isa. 8:13. Jer. 1:5; Jer. 1:10. Eze. 13:19;
Eze. 20:26.

Isa. 6:10.-“Make the heart of this people fat”: i.e., declare that it shall
become so. (Isaiah could not make it fat, etc.) So Mat. 13:14. Mar.
4:12. Luk. 8:10. Joh. 12:40. Act. 28:26-27. Rom. 11:8.

Jer. 1:10.-“I have this day set thee over the nations and over the
kingdoms, to root out (i.e., to declare that they shall be rooted out),
and to pull down (i.e., to prophesy that they shall be pulled down), and
to destroy ({6., to declare that they shall be destroyed), and to throw
down (i.e., to foretell that they shall be thrown down),” etc.
Jer. 4:10.-“Then said 1, Ah, Lord God (Adonai-Jehovah)! surely thou
hast vehemently (or verily) deceived this people (i.e., prophesied that
this People shall be deceived), saying, Ye shall have peace; whereas
the sword reacheth unto the soul.”

The people deceived themselves, assuring themselves that they
should have peace (see chap. 5:12). The Lord had declared by his
prophet that they would so deceive themselves, and so it came to
pass that they were permitted to be deceived by their false prophets.
Jer. 38:23.-“Thou shalt burn this city with fire”: /.е., thou shalt declare
that it shalt be burnt. A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] renders it cause it to be burnt, as
though it were the Metonymy of the effect. It is clearly the Metonymy
of the subject: for Zedekiah was not personally to set light to the city!
Eze. 13:19.-“And will ye pollute me among my people for handfuls of
barley and for pieces of bread, to slay the souls that should not die
and to save the souls alive that should not live”: to prophesy (falsely)
that they should die, and to promise life to those who should not live.
Eze. 13:22.-“Ye have ... strengthened the hands of the wicked, that he
should not return from his wicked way, by quickening him”: i.e., by
promising him life. See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin.
Eze. 20:25-26.-“Wherefore | gave them also statutes that were not
good, and judgments whereby they should not live (i.e., | permitted
them to receive such statutes from the heathen); And | polluted them
in their own gifts,” etc.: ie., | suffered them to pollute themselves
inthose gifts which, by the Law, they ought to have dedicated to Me.
See under Antanaclasis.
Hos. 6:5.-“Therefore have | hewed them by the prophets (i.e., | have
declared by the prophets that they shall be hewed); | have slain them
by the words of my mouth ({6., | have foretold by the words of my
mouth that they shall be slain).”
Mat. 6:13.-“And lead us not into temptation”: i.e., suffer us not to be
led.
Mat. 16:19.-“Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth ({6., declare to be
binding as a precept, etc.), shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever
thou shalt loose on earth (i.e., declare to be not binding) shall be
loosed in heaven.” But note that, whatsoever this may mean, it is
nowhere stated that the apostle had either authority or power to
transmit the gift to others; still less to transmit the power to others to
give this gift! And in any case it refers to the “kingdom” and not to the
“Church.” See also chap. 18:18.
Luk. 7:29.-“And all the people that heard him, and the Publicans
justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John”: i.e., declared
God to be just, and praised him for His justice and goodness; in that
they humbled themselves in confession of sin and were baptized by
John. So the word is used again in verse 35 and chaps, 10:29; 16:15,
etc.

Joh. 20:23.-“Whose soever sins ye remit (i.e., declare to be remitted)
they are remitted unto them: and whose soever sins ye retain ({6.,
declare to be retained) they are retained.”

Here note that the apostles had neither the authority nor the power
to transmit this gift; still less to transmit the power to others to give it.
Act. 10:15.-“What God hath cleansed”: ie., declared to be
(ceremonially) clean: as is clear from verse 28.

Rom. 7:9.-“But when the commandment came”: j.e., when its power
was declared in revealing my impotence to obey it, I, in my
experience, suffered its penalty-death. See Gal. 3:23, below.
2Со. 3:6.-“The letter killeth”: i.e., the Law of God manifests its power,

in convincing of sin, and causing the sinner to condemn himself to

death, which is the wages of sin. Compare Rom. 7:10, and Hos. 6:5.

Gal. 3:23.-“Before faith came”: i.e., before the Gospel was declared,

and brought a new object for faith.

Jam. 2:21.-“Was not Abraham our father justified by works?” ie.,

declared to be justified. See verse 23 and Gen. 22:12. So also verses

24, 25.

Jam. 2:22.-“By works was faith made (i.e., declared to be, or

manifested to be) perfect”: {6., true and sincere.

ii. The CONTAINER for the contents: and the PLACE for the thing
placed in it

1. Circuit is so put in all these cases for what is contained within

it

Num. 22:4.-“Now shall all this company lick up all our circuit”: {.6., “all

that are round about us” (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or

current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ).

Ezr. 1:6.-“And all their circuit”: i.e., all that were about them.
2. Basket is put for its contents
Deu. 28:5.-“Blessed shall be thy basket and thy kneading-trough” (and
verse 17 contra). Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has translated the latter
Metonymy, but not the former. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] has translated neither. The container is put for the contents.
Here, probably, the “basket” is put for the seed, and “kneading-trough”
for the meal; the beginning and the end of their labours.

3. Wilderness is put for the wild beasts in it

Psa. 29:8.-“The voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness”: i.e., the
people and animals or inhabitants of the wilderness, as is clear from
the next verse, and Deu. 8:15.

4. House is put for household
Gen. 7:1.-“Come thou and all thy house (i.e., thy family) into the ark.”
Gen. 30:30.-“When shall | provide for mine own house (i.e., family)
also?”

Gen. 43:16.-Joseph ... “said to the ruler of his house”: {6., of his
servants. We use the word “establishment” in the same way: as the
French also use “ménage.”

Exo. 1:21.-God “made them houses”: i.e., families, or progeny.

Exo. 2:1.-“And there went a man of the house (i-e., lineage) of Levi.”
2Sa. 7:11.-“Jehovah telleth thee that make thee an house will
Jehovah”: i.e., a posterity, especially referring to Christ, Who should
be of “the seed of David,” and sit on His throne for ever. Luk. 1:31-33.
Observe the Figure Epanadiplosis in the above rendering of the
Hebrew.

1Ch. 10:6.-“So Saul died, and his three sons, and all his house died
together” (i.e., all his family), as explained in 1Sa. 31:6.

Psa. 49:11 (12).-“Their inward thought is that their houses (i.e., their
families) shall continue for ever.”

Isa. 36:3.-“Then came forth unto him Eliakim, Hilkiah’s son, which was
over the house”: ᾖ6., the servants, or household.

Eze. 3:1.-“Go speak unto the house (i.e., the descendants) of Israel.”
The margin of Ginsburg’s Hebrew Bible gives another reading: “sons.”
Eze. 27:14.-“They of the house of Togarmah”: i.e., of Togarmah’s
descendants. See Gen. 10:3.

Luk. 19:9.-“This day is salvation come to this house”: i.e., to
Zacchzeus and his family.

Act. 10:2.-Cornelius ... “feared God with all his house”: {6., all his
family or household.

1Co. 1:16.-Here the Greek word “house” is rendered “household”: {6.,
family.

1Ti. 3:4.-“One that ruleth well his own house”: {6., his own family.

2Ti. 3:6.-“For of this sort are they that creep into houses”: i.e.,
families.

2Ti. 4:19.-Here the Greek, “house,” is rendered “household”: {6.,
family.

Tit. 1:11.-“Who subvert whole houses”: {6., families.
Heb. 11:7.-“Noah ... prepared an ark to the saving of his house”: i.e.,
of his family.

5. Islands are put for their inhabitants
Isa. 41:1.-“Keep silence before me, О islands”: /.е., the inhabitants of
the islands. So Isa. 42:4; and Isa. 51:5.

6. Table is put for the things on it
Psa. 23:5.-“Тпои preparest a table before me”: i.e., the good things
upon it. As, when we say that such an one “keeps a good table,” we
mean that it is spread bountifully.
Psa. 78:19.-“Can God (6, the name of concentrated power) furnish
(Heb., order, see A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ) a table in the
wilderness?”: i.e., set the things upon it.
Under this head comes also

Hos. 14:2 (3).-“So will we render the calves of our lips.”
Here, note first, that the word “render” is uéi (shilem), to offer or
pay a vow. Next, that the word “calves” means oxen; i.e., the animals
used in sacrifice.

Then we have two Metonymies. First, oxen are put (by Metonymy
of the subject) for the sacrifices offered; and then the lips are put (by
Metonymy of the cause) for the confession made by them. So that the
verse really should read: “So shall we offer our sacrifices of
confession and prayer”; being exactly what is expressed in Psa. 51:17
(19). “The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, etc.,” and Heb. 13:15 :
“By him ... let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is,
the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name.” See also Psa. 69:30
(31), 31 (32); 116:17; 141:2.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , while trying to
improve the translation, misses both Metonymies: “So will we render
as bullocks the offering of our lips’-retaining the “letter” (“bullocks” and
“lips”) and missing the “spirit” (sacrifices and confession).

Heb. 13:10.-“We have an altar”: i.e., a sacrifice, referring to the sin-
offering which was burned without the camp including the skin and the
dung, no soul having a right to eat of it. So Christ is our sin-offering
offered without the gate. That it is a figure is clear, for the verse reads
on: “We have an altar, whereof (ἐξ οὗ, ex hou, of which) they have no
right to eat which serve the Tabernacle.” People do not eat “altars”!
The word “altar’ must, therefore, be used by Metonymy for the
sacrifices offered upon it, which were eaten.

But, here, it is the sin-offering which is referred to, which no one
might eat; and therefore those who continued still “served the
tabernacle” could have no part in Christ as the sin-offering.

7. Mountain is put for mountainous region
Jos. 13:6.-“Mountain” is put for a mountainous region, translated here
“hill country.” See Jdg. 7:24.
Jdg. 3:27; Jdg. 7:24.-“Mountain of Ephraim’: Mount Ephraim is put
for the mountainous region of Ephraim.
Mountains are also put for idols worshipped there; or for their
inhabitants.
Jer. 3:23.-"Truly in vain is salvation hoped for from the hills, and from
the multitude of mountains.” Here, “mountains” and “hills” are put for
the idols which were worshipped there. See Eze. 18:6; Eze. 18:11;
Eze. 18:15.
Mic. 1:4.-“And the mountains shall be molten under him, and the
valleys shall be cleft, as wax before the fire, and as the waters that are
poured down a steep place.” From a comparison with Psa. 68:2 and
1Ch. 12:15 (16) it seems that “mountains” and “valleys” are here put
for their inhabitants. So Psa. 97:5.
8. The World is put for its inhabitants

Joh. 3:16.-“God so loved the world”: i.e., the inhabitants of the world,
now without distinction. Before it was only Israel without exception.
See further under Synecdoche.
2Co. 5:19.-“Reconciling the world (i.e., the inhabitants of the world)
unto himself.”
41Jn. 2:2.-“He is the propitiation for our sins: and not for ours only, but
also for the whole world”: i.e., for all the inhabitants of the world
without distinction; as shown by the use of the word for “ours” (which
is ἡμέτερος (heemeteros) and not ἡμῶν (heemapn), of us: i.e., “our,”
as in the previous clause).

Heemeteros denotes that which is peculiarly ours as distinct from
others’. See Act. 2:11; Act. 24:6; Act. 26:5. Rom. 15:4. 2Ti. 4:15. Tit.
3:14. 1Jn. 1:3.

See also under Synecdoche and Ellipsis.
1Jn. 5:19.-“The whole world (i.e., all the inhabitants of the world) lieth
in [the power of] the wicked one.” See under Ellipsis.

9. The World is put for a portion of its inhabitants
Joh. 1:10.-“The world knew him not”: {6., people of the world.
Joh. 3:17.-“That the world through him might be saved”: i.e., people in
the world without distinction.

Joh. 6:33.-“The bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven,

and giveth life unto the world”: i.e., to God’s People in the world.
Compare verse 51. Hence Joh. 1:9; Joh. 3:17.

Joh. 7:7.-“The world cannot hate you, but me it hateth”: ie., the

inhabitants of the world, as without God.

Joh. 14:17.-“The Spirit of truth; whom the world (i.e., men) cannot

receive.” So Joh. 15:19; Joh. 16:20; Joh. 16:33; Joh. 17:9; Joh. 17:14,

etc.

Joh. 14:31.-“But that the world may know that | love the Father’: i.e.,

that the godly in the world. Hence Joh. 1:9 : “That was the true light,

which, coming into the world (i.e., among men), lighteth every man,”

without distinction of race or language, etc.; as heretofore only Israel,

not without exception, for that is not the fact. See under Periphrasis.

Joh. 17:21.-“That the world may believe”: i.e., many in the world,

without distinction.

1Co. 11:32.-“That we should not be condemned with the world”: i.e.,

with the ungodly.

1Jn. 3:1.-“Therefore the world (i.e., those who are without God)
knoweth us not.” 1Jn. 4:5; 1Jn. 5:4-5, etc.
So the Devil is the Prince (or god) of this world: i.e., the ungodly
inhabitants of it.
Joh. 12:31; Joh. 14:30; Joh. 16:11. 2Co. 4:4. Eph. 2:2; Eph. 6:12.
And conversely, the world may be put for God’s people.
10. Ships are put for the souls in them
Isa. 23:1.-“Howl, ye ships of Tarshish.” Here “ships” are put for the
people in them. So verse 14.
11. Nests are put for the birds in them
Deu. 32:11.-“As an eagle stirreth up her (Heb., masc.) nest”: i.e., her
young in the nest, as is clear from the rest of the verse.
12. Ophir is put for the gold of Ophir
Job. 22:24.-“Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust; and Ophir (i.e., the
gold of Ophir) as the stones of the brooks.”
13. Cup is put for the wine in it

Jer. 49:12.-“Сир” is put for the contents: i.e., for the wine in it.
Eze. 23:32.-“Cup” is put for what is in it.
Luk. 22:17; Luk. 22:20.-“Сир” is put for its contents, as is clear from
verse 20, and Mar. 14:24 and Mat. 26:28.
1Co. 10:16; 1Co. 10:21; 1Co. 11:25-28.-In these and other places
“cup” is put for the contents of it.

14. Region is put for its inhabitants
Gen. 47:15.-“All Egypt came unto Joseph”: /-e., all the Egyptians, as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.]
Psa. 105:38.-“Egypt was glad when they departed”: {6., the Egyptians
were glad.
Psa. 68:31 (32).-“Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God”:
ie., the Ethiopians.
Job. 1:15.-“Sheba fell upon them”: i.e., the Sabeans, as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
See 6:19 and Isa. 43:3.
Mat. 3:5.-“Then went out to him Jerusalem (i.e., the inhabitants of
Jerusalem) and all Judzea (i.e., the dwellers in Judaea),” etc.
Rom. 15:26.-“For it pleased Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain
contribution”: i.e., the saints in Macedones and Achaia.
15. Grave is put for the dead buried in it

Isa. 38:18.-“The grave (i.e., those who are buried in it) cannot praise
thee.” This is clear from verse 19 and Psa. 115:17.

16. Tents, etc., are put for the dwellers therein
Gen. 13:5.-“Tents” are put for the many servants, etc., who dwelt in
them.
Psa. 78:67.-“He refused the tabernacle (or tent: /е., the tribe) of
Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim.”
Psa. 87:2.-“The Lord loveth the gates of Zion more than all the
dwellings (i.e., tribes) of Jacob.”
Psa. 91:10.-“Neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling”: i.e.,
those who dwell in it.
Pro. 14:11.-Here “house” and “tabernacle” are put for those who dwell
in them.

17. The land or earth are put for its inhabitants
Gen. 6:11.-“The earth also was corrupt before God”: i.e., the
inhabitants of the earth, as is clear from the next verse.
Gen. 11:1.-“And the whole earth was of one language, and of one
speech”: i.e., the people on the earth.
Gen. 18:25.-“Shall not the Judge of all the earth ({6., the people on
the earth) do right?”
Gen. 41:30.-“The famine shall consume the land”: i.e., the people in
the land.
Gen. 41:57.-“And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph to buy”: {6.,
people from all countries.
Jdg. 5:7.-“The villages ceased”: {6., the inhabitants of the villages, or
the Peasantry. So also 5:11. See under Ellipsis and
Homeeopropheron.
1Sa. 14:29.-“Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land”:
ie., the People.
2Sa. 15:23.-“And all the country (i.e., the people) wept with a loud
voice.”
Pro. 28:2.-“For the trangression of a land (i.e., of the people of a
country) many are the princes thereof.”
Psa. 9:8 (9).-“And he shall judge the world in righteousness”: i.e., the
inhabitants of the world.
Psa. 22:27 (28).-“All the ends of the world (i.e., the people living in the
uttermost parts of the world) shall remember and turn unto the Lord.”
So Psa. 67:7 (8).
Psa. 66:1.-“Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands”: i.e., уе
nations.
Psa. 66:4.-“All the earth (i.e., the peoples) shall worship thee.” So
Psa. 82:8; Psa. 96:1. Eze. 14:13.
Mat. 5:13.-“Ye are the salt of the earth”: i.e., the peoples.

“Salt” also is used by Metaphor (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.] ) for its
preserving effects.
Land is also put for its spoils.

Isa. 43:3.-“Egypt’ is put for the spoils of Egypt.

18. Theatre is put for its spectacle
1Со. 4:9.-“For we are made a theatre to the world”: i.e., a spectacle,
as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.]

19. City, etc., put for its inhabitants
1Sa. 22:19.-“And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he”: i.e., its
inhabitants.
Jer. 4:29.-“The whole city shall flee”: i.e., all the inhabitants of the city.
Isa. 14:31.-“Cry, О city”: i.e., ye inhabitants of the city.
Jer. 26:2.-“Speak unto all the cities of Judah”: ie, to their
representatives.
Jer. 48:8.-“Here “city,” valley,” and “plain” are put for their respective
inhabitants.

Jer. 49:23.-“Hamath” is put for its inhabitants. So Arpad too in verse
24, Damascus.

Mic. 6:9.-“The Lord’s voice crieth unto the city”: {6., to the inhabitants.
Mat. 11:21; Mat. 11:23.-“Chorazin,” “Bethsaida,” and “Capernaum,”
are put for their inhabitants.
Mat. 23:37.-“O Jerusalem, Jerusalem”: i.e., the people that dwelt
there.
Mar. 1:5.-“Judzea’” is put for its inhabitants.
Mar. 1:33.-“And all the city was gathered”: i.e., all its inhabitants.
Act. 8:25.-They “preached the gospel to many villages of the
Samaritans”: /е., to their inhabitants. The A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] evades and hides
the Metonymy by rendering it “in many,” etc.

20. Heaven is put for God, Who dwells there
Psa. 73:9.-“They set their mouth against the heavens”: i.e., against
God, Who dwells there.

The rest of the verse confirms this:-“Their tongue (Met. for words)
walketh through the earth.” Here “earth” is put for the people who
dwell upon it; and so “heaven” is put for Him who dwells there.

So Dan. 4:26; Dan. 4:29. 2Ch. 32:20.
Mat. 3:2.-“The kingdom of heaven”: i.e., of God; the sphere in which
God rules and reigns. For the word βασιλεία means dominion rather
than territory.

The expression occurs only in Matthew, and in this gospel we have
it 35 times. Whether the Lord spoke in Hebrew or Aramaic is open to
question: but it is certain He did not speak in Greek.

It is also certain that several passages, which are exactly parallel
in every other respect, are unlike in this: e.g., Mat. 11:11 : “He that is
least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he (i.e., John the
Baptist),” and Luk. 7:28 : “He that is least in the kingdom of God is
greater than he.”

How is this difference to be explained? Only by the assumption
that the Lord speaking in Aramaic, or Hebrew, used the words
“kingdom of heaven.” Then, in putting this into Greek, in Matthew the
figure was preserved, literally; while in Luke it was translated,
“kingdom of God.”

“Heaven” is frequently put for “God,” who dwells there. We say”
Heaven forbid,” “Heaven protect us,” etc. So the lost son says, “I have
sinned against heaven.” He means, against God!
This does not at all affect the truths concerning the kingdom, as
contrasted with the Church.

While the kingdom or reign is God's, yet it has different aspects. In
Matthew, the expression “Kingdom of heaven” corresponds with the
aspect of the kingdom as presented in that Gospel.

Our suggestion is that in each case the words “kingdom of
heaven” were the words spoken in Aramaic; but that, in presenting
them in Greek, the figure is translated, and given idiomatically in Mark
and Luke.

The effect of this figure, then, here, is that, by the figure of
Enallage, the emphasis is placed on the words “heaven” and “God,”
and not on the word “kingdom”; and by the figure of Heterosis, the
plural, “heavens” (as it is in the Greek) is put for the singular to still
more emphasize the expression.

Hence the phrase means that this reign is the Divine or Heavenly
Dominion, in contrast with all the kingdoms which are of or from this
world.

In Matthew, the aspect of it is Old Testament and Jewish; while in
the other gospels the aspect is larger and wider in its sphere.
The reign and rule of God Comprises all in time and space, and
many are the spheres and departments embraced within it. Thus,
while the Church of God is embraced in it, the church is not the
kingdom. While Israel is embraced in it, Israel does not exhaust the
reign and dominion of God. While the Gentiles come within the reach
of that dominion, they are neither the kingdom itself nor the church. All
these are distinct from each other; and yet all are embraced in the
universal reign of heaven; the church occupying its own unique
position as the Body of Christ, in whom all things are to be headed-up
(Eph. 1:10; Eph. 1:20-23).

Mat. 21:25.-“The baptism of John, whence was it? from heaven (i.e.,
from God), or of men?” So Luk. 20:4.
Luk. 15:18.-“Father, | have sinned against heaven (i.e., against God),
and before thee.”
Joh. 3:27.-“A man can receive nothing, except it be given him from
heaven”: i.e., from God (who dwells there).

21. Heart is put for nature and character
Psa. 24:4.-“He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart.”
Here “hands” are put for the works done by them; while “heart” is
not the muscular organ of the body, but is put for the inward character
Psa. 84:2 (3).-“My soul longeth (i.e., | long), yea, even fainteth for the
courts of the Lord: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God”:
ie., my soul and my body, my whole being. See also under
Synecdoche.
1Pe. 3:4.-“Let it be the hidden man of the heart”: i.e., the new nature
implanted within.

22. Belly is put for heart or thoughts
Job. 15:35.-” Their belly prepareth deceit’: i.e., their thoughts and
desires.
Pro. 18:8.-“The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go
down into the chambers of the belly”: i.e., the innermost thoughts and
feelings, moving them as the belly is actually moved by excitement.
See Hab. 3:16. So Pro. 26:22.
Pro. 20:27.-“The spirit of man is the candle (or lamp: /.е., light) of the
Lord, searching all the inward parts of the belly”: i.e., moving and
influencing the thoughts and feelings, as the belly itself is moved.
Joh. 7:38.-“He that believeth on me, as the Scripture hath said, out of
his belly shall flow rivers of living water.” Here, “belly” is put for the
innermost thoughts and feelings, and what the Scripture hath said of
this is written in Pro. 18:4.

iii. The possessor is put for the thing possessed

1. Nations are put for countries

Deu. 9:1.-“To possess nations”: /.е., their countries, and all that they
contained.
2Sa. 8:2.-“And he smote Moab, and measured them (i.e., the territory
of the Moabites) with a line, casting them (i.e., the cities within it) to
the ground.”
Psa. 79:7.-“They have devoured Jacob”: i.e., the riches and good
things of the descendents of Jacob.
Mar. 5:35.-“While he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the
synagogue”: i.e., from his house: ᾖθ., his servants, whom he
employed.
2. Person is put for possessions

Gen. 15:3.-“And, lo, one born in my house inherits me”: i.e., my
possessions or property.
2Co. 11:20.-“For ye suffer ... if a man devour you”: i.e., your goods or
property, as expressed in Psa. 14:4.

3. Princes are put for the thousands whom they led
Mat. 2:6.-“Art not the least among the princes of Judah.” Here the
princes who led-men by the thousand are put for the thousands or
families whom they led. See 1Sa. 10:19.

In Mic. 5:2 (1), we have the word “thousands” literally instead of
the figure Metonymy. So Jdg. 6:15, and 1Sa. 10:19. Our English
“hundreds,” as applied to a territorial division, has the same origin.

4. God is put for the sacrifices offered to Him
Jos. 13:33.-“The Lord God of Israel was their (the Levites’)
inheritance, as he said unto them”: see verse 14. From which it is
clear that the name of Jehovah is put for the sacrifices which were
offered to him, and which He accepted: {.6., their priesthood, as stated
in 18:7. Deu. 10:9. Eze. 44:28. Num. 18:8; Num. 18:20. Deu. 18:1-3.
5. Christ is put for His people

Act. 9:4.-“Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?” i.e., My People who
belong to Me. See verse 5; and compare verses 1 and 2.
1Со. 12:12.-“For as the body is one, and hath many members and all
the members of that one body, being many, are one body; so also is
Christ” or the Christ: i.e., Christ mystical; not personal; as is clear from
verse 13 and what follows.
Col. 1:24.-“Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up that
which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh”: i.e., Christ
mystical; not personal; as is clear from what follows: “for His body’s
sake, which is the Church.”

6. God is put for the power manifested by Him
Luk. 1:35.-“The power of the Highest shall overshadow thee”: i.e., the
Highest shall overshadow thee; and His power, which is infinite, shall
be put forth upon or manifested in thee.

iv. The object is put for that which pertains or relates to it

1. Jesus is put for His doctrine
2Co. 11:4.-“For if he that cometh (i.e., the one who is coming, perhaps
from Jerusalem or the Twelve) preacheth another Jesus”: ᾖθ., a
different doctrine or teaching concerning Jesus. See Gal. 1:8.

2. A god is put for his worship
Exo. 32:1.-“Make us a god which shall go before us”: i.e., whom we-
may worship and honour. Compare 1К!. 12:28.

3. Attributes are put for the praise and celebration of them
Psa. 29:1.-“Give unto the Lord glory and strength”: How can we give
these to God? We can praise Him for these, but we cannot give them.
They are thus put, by Metonymy, for the praise given to Him for his
glory and strength. So also Psa. 96:7.

Psa. 8:2 (3).-“Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou

ordained strength”: i.e., praise for the manifestation and putting forth

of God's strength, as is clear from Mat. 21:16, where it is rendered

“Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast perfected praise.”
4. Burden is put for the prophecy

Isa. 21:1.-“The burden of the desert of the sea.” Here, “burden” is put

for the prophecy of Divine punishment which follows. So Isa. 13:1; Isa.

23:1, etc., etc. Mal. 1:1 The burden might be in words, or by a vision.
5. Sin is put for the offering for sin

Gen. 4:7.-“Sin (i.e., a sin offering) lieth at the door.” So the word “sin”

is frequently used for a sin offering. See Exo. 30:10. Lev. 4:3; Lev.

6:25. Num. 8:8. Psa. 40:6 (7), etc. Lev. 7:5; Lev. 7:7. 1Sa. 6:3-4, and

2Co. 5:21.

Exo. 29:14.-‘It is a sin”: i.e., an offering which atones for sin.

Hos. 4:8.-“They eat up the sin, ({.6., the sin-offering) of my people.”
2Со. 5:21.-“Не hath made him to be sin (i.e., a sin-offering) for us.”
See- Isa. 53:10. Eph. 5:2.

6. Promise is put for the faith which receives it
Rom. 9:8.-“The children of the promise are counted for the seed”: i.e.,
who believe and receive the promise of God, as is clear from 4:12, 16.
Gal. 3:7; Gal. 3:29; Gal. 4:28.

7. Covenant is put for the two tables of stone
1Ki. 8:21.-“l have set there a place for the ark, wherein is the
covenant of the Lord (i.e, the two tables of stone) which he made with
our fathers,” etc., as is clear from Exo. 34:28 Rom. 9:4. See especially
Deu. 9:9; Deu. 9:11; Deu. 9:15; Deu. 9:17.

8. Blood is put for blood-shedding
Isa. 33:15.-“That stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood”: from
listening to those who shed blood, according to Pro. 1:10-11.
9. Double is used for that which is complete, thorough, or ample;
and of full compensation, whether of judgment or of blessing

This Metonymy arose out of the literal use of the word. See
Gen. 43:12, where the “double money” was to pay for the corn taken
that time as well as for that which was taken the time before.
Exo. 16:5.-The “double” manna was “twice as much,” so as to be
enough for two days instead of one.
Exo. 22:7; Exo. 22:9, where the thief was to restore “double”: i.e., to
make compensation in full.
Deu. 15:18, where the liberated bond-servant was worth the “double”
of an hireling in serving six years instead of three (compare Isa. 16:14;
Isa. 21:16).

From this literal use of the words mishneh (ida) and kiphlayim
(6666), the word “double” is used by Metonymy, as follows:-
Job. 11:6.-“The secrets of wisdom are double to that which is”: /.e., far
beyond, or much more.

Job. 41:13.-“Who can come to him (leviathan) with his double ({6.,
strong) bridle.” Here. it is 666 (kephel) in the singular.

Isa. 40:2.-“For she hath received of the Lord’s hand double for all her
sins”: i.e., full punishment.

Isa. 61:7.-“For your shame ye shall have double, and for confusion
they shall rejoice in their portion: therefore, in their land they shall
possess the double: everlasting joy shall be unto them.”

Here, we have the “double” denoting not full punishment (as in Isa.
40:2), but complete compensation. And this is marked in the
alternation of the four lines: where we have this completeness in the
first and third lines; and the consequent joy and rejoicing in the
second, and fourth lines:-

a For your shame ye shall have complete compensation or full

acquittal.
Ь And for confusion they shall rejoice in their portion.

a Therefore in their land they shall possess the complete

pardon.
Ь — Everlasting joy shall be unto them.
Jer. 17:18.-“Destroy them with double destruction”: ie., with a
complete destruction.
Jer. 16:18.-“And first | will recompense their iniquity and their sin
double”: i.e., with a complete and thorough punishment. Not literally
double, but completely.
Zec. 9:12.-“Turn you to the stronghold, ye prisoners of hope: even to-
day do | declare that | will render double unto thee”: ie., | will
completely pardon you and give you full compensation for all your
troubles.
1Ti. 5:17.-“Let the elders that rule be counted worthy of double ({6.,
liberal) honour (/.е., maintenance).” See under /diom.

v. The thing signified is put for the sign

Exo. 8:23 (19).-“And | will put a redemption between my people and
thy people ({6., the judgment, which would be the sign of the
redemption): for to-morrow will this sign be.”
Num. 6:7.-“Because the consecration (Heb. separation, see margin)
of his God is upon his head”: {6., the hair, which was the sign and
symbol of his separation.

Deu. 16:3.-“Unleavened bread ... even the bread of affliction”: i.e., the
bread which was the sign and symbol of their affliction in Egypt.

Deu. 22:15; Deu. 22:17.-Here the Metonymy is supplied in italics, the
letter of the passage being so obviously figurative.

2Ki. 13:17.-“The arrow of the Lord’s deliverance”: i.e., the sign of the
future deliverance which the Lord would work for His People.

1Ch. 16:11.-“Seek the Lord and his strength”: i.e., the Ark of the
Covenant, which was the sign and symbol of His Presence and
strength. So Psa. 105:4, according to Psa. 132:8.
Psa. 78:6.-“And delivered his strength into captivity” i.e., the Ark of the
Covenant, referring to 1Sa. 4:11, etc. See Psa. 132:8.

Isa. 49:6.-“It is a light thing that thou shouldest be my servant to raise
up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the desolations of Israel”: i.e., the
land and the cities of Israel which have been reduced to desolation.

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] renders it “preserved,” not seeing the figure, but
it puts “desolations” in the margin.

Eze. 7:27.-“The prince shall be clothed with desolation”: i.e., with his
garments rent, which was the sign of his mourning.

IV. Metonymy of the Adjunct
The fourth division of Metonymy is called the Metonymy of the Adjunct
(or Relation), and is the opposite of Metonymy of the Subject.

It is so called because some circumstance pertaining to the
subject is put for the subject itself; e.g., the contents for the container,
the possession for the possessor, etc. It is divided into the seven
following parts:-
i. The adjunct or accident is put for the subject

That which is an accident, or belongs to anything, is put for the subject
or the thing itself to which it belongs.

1. The abstract is put for the concrete; or, the attribute is put for

that to which anything is attributed

Gen. 31:54.-“Then Jacob killed beasts upon the mount”: i.e., he
offered sacrifices, as the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] renders it. Here, by
Metonymy, the abstract is put for its concrete.
Gen. 42:38.-“Then shall ye bring down my grey hairs (i.e., me, in my
old age) with sorrow to the grave.”
Gen. 46:34.-“For every shepherd is an abomination (ie., an
abominable person) unto the Egyptians.”

1Sa. 15:29.-“And also the eternity of Israel will not lie nor repent.”
Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] renders it “Strength,” but the attribute “Eternity”
is put for Him to whom it is attributed: i.e., the eternal One: i.e., God.
See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] margin.

2Sa. 23:23.-“And David set him over his listeners”: i.e., those who
stood at David’s door and listened for his command. Hence his
bodyguard. See 20:23. 1Ki. 1:38.

Neh. 5:9.-“Because of the reproach (i.e., the reproachful deeds) of the
heathen our enemies.”

Job. 5:16.-“So the poor hath hope, and iniquity (i.e., the iniquitous
man) stoppeth his mouth.”

Job. 31:21.-“If | have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, when |
saw my help ({6., those who helped me or would be on my side) in the
gate.”

Job. 32:7.-“I said, Days (i.e., men of days, or men of full age) should
speak, and multitude of years (i.e., aged men) should teach wisdom.”
Psa. 12:1 (2).-“Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth: for the faithful
from the sons of men fail”: i.e., faithful men fail. So Psa. 31:23 (24).
2598. 20:19.

Psa. 65:8 (9).-“They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at
thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to
rejoice”: [.Θ., thou makest those who go out in the morning and return
in the evening to sing. [Note: ing. The Singular Number.] See under
Ellipsis.

Psa. 68:18 (19).-“Thou hast led captivity ({6., captives) captive.” Isa.
49:24. Jer. 29:14.

Psa. 110:3.-“From the womb of the morning: thou hast (or shall be)
the dew of thy youth”: i.e., thy young men shall be born to thee as dew
is born in the morning.
Pro. 23:21.-“For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty:

and drowsiness (i.e., the sluggard) shall clothe a man (i.e., himself)

with rags.”

Isa. 57:13.-“Vanity (i.e., vain men) shall take them.” So Psa. 144:4.

Jam. 4:14.

Jer. 2:5.-They “have walked after vanity (i.e., vain things, or idols),

and are become vain.” See under Paronomasia. So Deu. 32:21. Jer.

14:22, and compare Act. 14:15.

Eze. 44:6.-“And thou shalt say unto rebellion”: i.e., to the rebellious

People.

Amo. 8:3.-“And the songs of the temple shall be howlings in that day.”
Here, through missing the Metonymy in the first part of this

sentence, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of

our English Bible, 1611.] has been obliged to alter the latter part, and

put in the margin, “Heb., shall howl.” But if we note that “songs” are

put for singers, then we have perfect sense:-“And the singers of the

temple shall howl in that day.”

Luk. 1:78.-“Whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us”: i.e.,

the morning star which precedes the day. So John the Baptist, as the

“morning star,” preceded Christ, Who is “the Sun of Righteousness.”
See Isa. 9:2 (1); 60:1, 2. Mal. 4:2 (3:20), etc.

Joh. 11:40.-“Said | not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou
shouldest see the glory (i.e., the glorious work) of God?”

Rom. 3:30.-“Seeing it is one God, which shall justify the circumcision
by faith and uncircumcision through faith.” Here, “circumcision” is put
for those who are circumcised; and uncircumcision for uncircumcised
persons, as in 15:8 and Gal. 2:9; Gal. 2:12.

Rom. 8:19.-“The earnest expectation of the creation ({6., created
things or creatures) waiteth.”

Rom. 11:7.-“But the election (i.e., elect persons) hath obtained it.”
Eph. 1:21.-Here, the attributes are put for the beings who possess
them:-“Far above all princes, and powerful beings, and mighty ones,
and lords”: i.e., all spiritual beings in heavenly places. See also under
Synonymia and Polysyndeton.

Php. 1:16.-“Supposing to add affliction to my bonds”: i.e., my captivity.
See also under Prosapodosis.

1Pe. 2:17.-“Love the brotherhood”: i.e., the brethren. Compare 1Ре.
5:9.
2. Other adjuncts also are put for the subjects to which they
pertain: as Light for the sun, Oil for anointing, etc.

Gen. 34:29.-“And all their strength”: i.e., wealth, as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
Exo. 14:4.-“And | will be honoured upon Pharaoh and upon all his
power.” Heb. is geél: ie., his power, which is put by Metonymy for
his army, which was the expression of his power. See below 1Sa.
14:48.
Lev. 13:4.-“Then the priest shall shut up the plague seven days”: i.e.,
as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , “him that hath the plague.” See verses 13, 31, 50.
Deu. 8:17.-“And thou say in thine heart, My power and the might of
mine hand hath gotten me this strength”: i.e., wealth, as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
1Sa. 14:48.-“And he gathered a power” (Heb. geé, i.e., an host), as
in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] See Exo. 14:4.
1Ki. 7:9.-“From the foundation unto the coping.” Heb. édgiu
(tephachoth), spans, put by Metonymy for the height: i.e., from the
foundation to the summit.

Job. 6:22.-“Give a reward (or perhaps “bribe”) for me of your
strength”: i.e., “of your substance,” as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ; 19., that which
your strength has procured.
Job. 31:26.-“If | beheld the light when it shined.”

Here “the light” is put for the sun, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] (see margin). So
also 37:21 and Hab. 3:4.

Pro. 5:10.-“Lest strangers be filled with thy strength”: i.e., thy wealth,
as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.]

Pro. 15:6.-“In the house of the righteous is much strength”: ie.,
treasure, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.]

Isa. 1:18.-“Though your sins be as scarlet.” It is a question whether
here “sins” be not put for sinners. Certainly persons are spoken of,
and it is not easy to think of “sins,” as such, becoming white! It is the
sinner himself who is thus made “whiter than snow.” Psa. 51:7.

Isa. 10:14.-“And my hand hath found (or found means to reach) as a
nest the strength of the peoples”: i.e., their riches, gotten by their
strength, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.]

Isa. 10:27.-“Because of the oil”: i.e., the anointing, as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
But, from the reference to Gideon’s exploits which we have in verse
26, the sense may be: “And yoke snapt at sight of oil”: i.e., as Midian’s
yoke was distended till it «περί before the ой (or resin) burning in
Gideon’s lamps, so will Asshur’s yoke, again, recoil (enlF, verse 26)
from thy neck, before the hot “blast” (see 37:7, and compare Psa.
18:15 (16); see, too, 2Th. 2:8).

Isa. 30:6.-“They will carry their strength ({6., riches) upon the
shoulders of young asses.” Here “strength” is put for the riches and
presents which Israel’s ambassadors were taking down to Egypt, to
induce Egypt to help Israel against Assyria. In verses 2 and 3,
“strength” is used literally. But in the next verse (7), it is put by
Metonymy for “Egypt,” in whose strength they trusted.

Isa. 30:7.-“Their strength is to sit still.”

These words are usually taken as an exhortation to the Lord’s
people to sit still and do nothing. But the fact is just the opposite. They
are spoken of Egypt, on whom Israel was relying for help against the
Assyrians. See verses 1, 3: “The strength of Pharaoh” was what they
trusted in. But Jehovah declared that that would be a vain trust, for

“The Egyptians shall help in vain, and to no purpose:

Therefore have | cried concerning this,
Their strength is to sit still:”
ie., Egypt, when Israel’s ambassadors arrived there (verses 4-6),
would sit still, and not help them at all. “Strength” is put by Metonymy
for Egypt, in the strength of which Israel trusted.
Jer. 20:5.-“Moreover | will deliver all the strength ({6., all the riches
which are procured by strength) of this city ... into the hand of their
enemies.”
Jer. 40:7.-“And of the poverty of the Land”: i.e., the poor people of the
country.
Eze. 38:4.-“And all thy power”: /.e., “all thine army,” as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
Mat. 8:3.-“His leprosy was cleansed”: i.e., the leper. See verses 2, 3,
and compare Mar. 1:42.
Mar. 14:54.-And Peter “warmed himself at the light”: i.e., at the fire, as
in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] See Joh. 18:18.
Act. 14:15.-“We ... preach unto you that ye should turn from these
vanities (i.e., idols) unto the living God.”
Note that the term “Living God” is generally used when idols are
mentioned or implied in the context (See 1Th. 1:9-10, etc.).
Gal. 3:13.-“Being made a curse for us”: i.e., accursed, one under the

curse of the Law.

Eph. 5:8.-“For ye were sometimes darkness ({6., dark and ignorant),

but now are ye light (i.e., enlightened ones) in the Lord.”

ii. The CONTENTS, for that which contains them: and what is

placed, for the place where it is located

Gen. 28:22.-“And this stone, which | have set for a pillar, shall be

God’s house”: {6., this place, of which the stone formed a part.

Jos. 15:19.-“Give me also springs of water”: i.e., land containing them

as well as the south land.

1Ch. 9:24.-“In four winds were the porters”: i.e., in the four quarters,

as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English

Bible, 1611.] But see Jer. 49:32 below.

Psa. 135:7.-“Bringing the wind out of His treasures”: i.e., treasuries,

as the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our

English Bible, 1611.] here properly renders the figure.

Isa. 23:3.-“The harvest of the river”: {6., the country through which the

river flows.
Jer. 49:32.-‘I will scatter into all winds”: i.e., all quarters (Heb., every
wind).

Eze. 5:12.-“I will scatter a third part into all the winds”: i.e., into all
quarters.

Eze. 26:5.-“It shall be the spreading of nets”: /е., a place for the
spreading of nets, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.]

Hos. 9:6.-“Thorns shall be in their tabernacles”: {6., in the places
where their tents were formerly pitched.

Amo. 8:5.-“Saying, When will the new moon be gone, that we may
sell corn? and the sabbath that we may open wheat (i.e., granaries).”
Not “set forth wheat,” as in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] The translators have
stumbled over the verb (see margin) through not seeing the Metonymy
of the noun.

Mat. 2:11.-“And when they had opened their treasures”: i.e., their
treasuries or caskets containing them; good and precious presents.
So Psa. 135:7. Mat. 12:35, etc.

Mat. 12:35.-“A good man out of the good treasure”: {6., treasury. The
words “of the heart” go out of the Text with the Textual Critics and R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

Mat. 13:52.-“Which bringeth forth out of his treasure ({6., treasury)
things new and old.”

Mat. 24:31.-“They shall gather his elect from the four winds”: i.e., from
the four quarters of the earth. The elect Nation of Israel is referred to.
Mat. 25:10.-“They that were ready went in with him to the marriage”:
i.e., to the place where the marriage was to be celebrated.

Mat. 25:21; Mat. 25:23.-“Enter thou into the joy of the lord”: {6., into
the place where the lord manifested his joy.

Luk. 21:4.-“All these have of their abundance cast in unto the
offerings of God”: i.e., into the chest or receptacle which received
those offerings made to God. Compare Mat. 15:5; Mat. 27:6.

Act. 16:13.-“Where we supposed was prayer”: {6., a place of prayer.
See verse 16. The word rendered “supposed” means that they looked
for and expected to find a place of prayer as lawfully and legally
allowed. Compare Luk. 3:23.

1Co. 9:24.-“Know ye not that they which run in a race-course (or
stadium)”: i.e., a race which is run there.

Gal. 2:12.-“For before that certain came from James”: i.e., from
Jerusalem, where James presided. See Act. 12:17; Act. 21:18.
Heb. 12:1.-“Let us run the race-course (or stadium)”: i.e., the race
which is run there. So 1Co. 9:24.
Rev. 8:3.-“And another angel came, having golden frankincense”: i.e.,
а censer. See verse 5.

iii. TIME is put for the things done in it, or existing in it
1. The word Time or Times
1Ch. 12:32 (33).-“And of the children of Issachar, which were men that
had understanding of the times”: {6., who understood what was going
on and being done, and needful to be done.
Est. 1:13.-“Then the king said to the wise men which knew the times”:
i.e., what was best to be done in connection with present and future
events.
Job. 11:17.-“And above the noonday shall be thy time”: ᾖθ., thy
prosperity shall be brighter and clearer than noon.
Psa. 31:15 (16).-“My times (i.e., my affairs, and all that | do or that can
be done to me) are in thy hand.” All are known to Thee, according to
Psa. 139:1.
2Ti. 3:1.-“This know also that in the last days difficult times will come”:
ie., difficult things will be done: which things are described in verses
2-5.

2. Age (αἰών, αἰφη), a period of time, is put for what takes place
in it

Mat. 13:22.-“The cares of this world”: lit., “of this age”: i.e., the things
of this life. So Mar. 4:19.
Luk. 16:8.-“The children of this world ({.6., of this age)”: those who are
living for the present things of this world.
Rom. 12:2.-“Be not conformed to this age”: i.e., to the passing
fashions, practices, and maxims of this world.
2Co. 4:4.-“The god of this age”: {6., of the things done in, and of the
people who live in and for, this world.
Eph. 2:2.-“Wherein in time past ye walked according to the age of this
world”: {Θ., according to the practices, and customs, and follies of the
world.
Eph. 6:12.-“The rulers of the darkness of this age”: i.e., of all the dark
things done in this world; the word “age” pointing to a time coming
when that rule will be done away.

See under Anaphora and Antimereia.
2Ti. 4:10.-“For Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present
age”: i.e., the course and life of this world.
Heb. 1:2.-“By whom also he made (or constituted) the ages”: i.e., the
world, and all that pertains to it. So Heb. 11:3, where the verb is
καταρτίζω (katartizq), to adjust, prepare, or restore.
3. Years is put for what happens in them
Pro. 5:9.-“Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years (i.e.,
thy strength and labours and life) unto the cruel.”
4. Day, or Days, is put for what transpires in them, the context
showing what it is
Deu. 4:32.-“For ask now of the days that are past”: /е., of what has
been done in them, past history.
Job. 18:20.-“They that come after him shall be astonied at his day”:
{9., at his fate.
Job. 24:1.-“Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do
not they that know him see his days?” i.e., understand His dealings
with them.
Psa. 37:13.-‘The Lord shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day
(i.e., his punishment) is coming.”
Psa. 137:7.-“Remember, О Lord, the children of Edom in the day (i.e.,
calamities) of Jerusalem; who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the
foundations thereof.”

Isa. 13:6.-“Howl ye; for the day (i.e., the judgment) of the Lord is at
hand.”

Eze. 21:29.-“The wicked, whose day is come”: i.e., whose calamity or
judgment shall have an end. Compare verse 25.

Eze. 22:4.-“Thou hast caused thy days (i.e., thy judgments) to draw
near.”

Hos. 1:11 (2:2).-“Great shall be the day of Jezreel”: {6., great shall be
the day of Israel’s restoration, and recovery of “life from the dead.”
Joe. 1:15.-“Alas for the day! for the day (i.e., the judgment) of the Lord
is at hand.” So Joe. 2:1; Joe. 2:31 (Joe. 3:4). Amo. 5:20. Zep. 1:14-16;
Zep. 1:18; Zep. 2:2.

Oba. 1:12.-“Thou shouldest not have looked on the day (i.e., the
calamity) of thy brother.”

Mic. 7:4.-“The day of thy watchmen”: ᾖθ., the calamity which the
watchmen will see coming.
Luk. 17:22; Luk. 17:26.-“The days of the Son of man”: i.e., the day
when Christ, as the second man, the Lord from heaven, shall assume
universal dominion over the earth and execute the judgments
necessary to secure it.
Luk. 19:42.- thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day”:
ie., in this time of grace, and of all the wonderful blessings which have
been brought to thee. See verse 44.
1Co. 4:3.-“It is a very small thing that | should be judged of you, or of
man’s day”:* [Note: See Four Prophetic Periods, by the same author
and publisher. Price one penny.] /.е., by human judgment. For now is
the time when man is judging; but the Lord’s day is coming, when He
will judge.
Eph. 5:16.-“Redeeming the time, because the days are evil”: i.e.,
because of the evil deeds that are done. See Dan. 2:8 (margin) and
Ixx. (both Versions: Ixx. and Theodotian).

5. Hour is put for what is done at the time
Mar. 14:35.-“And prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass
from him”: i.e., the suffering, etc.
Joh. 12:27.-“Now is my soul troubled; and what shall | say? Father,
save me from this hour (i.e., this time of trial): but for this cause came |
unto this hour (i.e., these sufferings).”

6. End is put for that which takes place at the end
Pro. 23:18.-“For surely there is an end; and thine expectation shall not
be cut off.” Here, “end” is put for the reward which comes at the end.
See margin, and 24:14, 20.
Jer. 29:11.-"To give you an expected end”: i.e., reward. See under
Hendiadys.
Jam. 5:11.-“Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the
end (i.e., the reward) of the Lord.”
1Pe. 1:9.-“Receiving the end (i.e., reward) of your faith.”

7. Feast-day is put for the sacrifices offered at the Festival
Exo. 23:18.-“Neither shall the fat of my feast remain until the
morning.” Here, feast is put by Metonymy for the sacrifice offered on
the day. See margin.
Psa. 118:27.-“Bind the feast (i.e., sacrifice) with cords.”

Isa. 29:1.-“Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David dwelt! add ye
year to year; let them kill sacrifices.” Here, the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
translates the Metonymy “sacrifices,” for which in the Hebrew is put
“feasts”; lit., “kill the feasts”: {6., the sacrifices.

In Mal. 2:3, where it is so very clear, the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] leaves
the word “feasts” and does not render it, as in Isa. 29:1.

Mal. 2:3.-“Spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your
solemn feasts”: i.e., of your sacrifices.
8. Passover is put for the Lamb slain at the Passover
Exo. 12:21.-“Kill the Passover”: {6., the lamb.
2Ch. 30:17.-“Killing of the Passovers”: i.e., the lambs.
Mat. 26:17.-“To eat the Passover”: i.e., the lamb.
Mar. 14:12.-“Killed the Passover’: i.e., the lamb.
Mar. 14:14.-“Where | shall eat the Passover”: i.e., the paschal lamb.
Luk. 22:8.-“Prepare us the Passover ({6., the lamb), that we may eat.”
Luk. 22:1-71 II.-“Where | shall eat the Passover”: {6., the lamb.
Luk. 22:15.-“With desire | have desired to eat this Passover”: i.e., this
lamb.

9. Summer is put for the fruits gathered in it
Isa. 16:9.-“For the shouting for thy summer.” Here, “summer” is put for
the fruits of the summer, and is so rendered. So 2Sa. 16:1. Jer. 40:10,
and Amo. 8:1. So the word “harvest” in the next clause is put for the
corn and fruits of the harvest.

10. Harvest is put for the fruits of the harvest
Deu. 24:19.-“When thou cuttest down thine harvest”: {6., thy corn, etc.
Isa. 17:5 -“And it shall be as when the harvestman gathereth the
harvest (i.e., the corn, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ), and reapeth the ears with
his arm.”
Joe. 3:13 (4:13).-“Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest ({.6., the corn) is
ripe.”
11. Fast is used for the time of year at which the Fast fell
Act. 27:9.-“Because the fast was now already past”: i.e., the time
appointed for fasting, viz., the tenth day of the seventh month. Lev.
23:27; Lev. 23:29 (about our Oct. 1, when sailing in those seas is
specially dangerous).
iv. The APPEARANCE of a thing, or an opinion about it, is put for
the thing itself
1. In NOUNS
Jer. 28:5; Jer. 28:10.-Hananiah is probably called a prophet, because
he was reputed to be one. See verse 1.
Eze. 21:4 (9).-“Seeing then that | will cut off from the righteous and the
wicked.” Here it is probably Metonymy, i.e., those who were reputed
as righteous, but were not so. See verse 3 (8).

Mat. 8:12.-“The children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer
darkness”: i.e., those who were considered to be such as by outward
privilege and inheritance were so.

Mat. 9:13.-“I am not come to call the righteous (i.e., righteous in their
own eyes).”

Luk. 2:48.-“Behold, thy father and | have sought thee sorrowing”: i.e.,
reputed father. See 3:23, and compare Joh. 6:42.

1Co. 1:21.-"The foolishness of preaching.” The preaching of the
gospel is not foolishness, but man thinks it is, and hence it is here so-
called.

1Co. 1:25.-“The foolishness of God”: i.e., that which man thinks
foolishness. Compare verse 18.

2Co. 4:4.-“The god of this world.” Not that the Devil is really the God,
but that the world takes him for such. See above, and compare Mat.
4:9. Luk. 4:6-7.

Gal. 1:6.-“Another gospel”: it was not the Gospel, though it was so
called.
Tit. 1:12.-“A prophet of their own.” Epiminedes was not a prophet
except in the opinion of the Cretans. See under Gnome.
Jam. 2:14; Jam. 2:17; Jam. 2:20; Jam. 2:24; Jam. 2:26.-The “faith”
here is not real faith, but that which passed for such; being only the
external profession.
2. Verbs

Mat. 14:9.-“And the king was sorry” (or appeared to be sorry).
Mar. 6:48.-“And would have passed by them,” at least, so they
thought.

3. CONNECTED WORDS or sentences
2Sa. 22:8.-“The foundations of heaven moved and shook”: i.e., the
mountains on which the heavens appear to rest. So also
Job. 26:11.-“The pillars of heaven tremble.”
Psa. 72:9.-“His enemies shall lick the dust”: {6., shall be so humbled
and prostrate as though they were licking the dust.
Isa. 13:5.-“From the end of heaven”: i.e., from where the earth seems
to touch the heaven. So Deu. 4:32; Deu. 30:4. Neh. 1:9. Mat. 24:31.
v. The ACTION or AFFECTION relating to an object is put for the
object itself
1. The Senses are put for the object of them, or for the things
which are perceived by the senses
Lev. 13:55.-“And if the plague have not changed his eye”: i.e., his
colour.
Num. 11:7.-“And the eye of it as the eye of bdellium.” (See A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
margin).
Here “eye” is put for colour, because it is the eye which sees and

distinguishes colour.
Psa. 112:7.-“He will not be afraid of evil hearing”: i.e., of what he may
hear; rumour, common talk, or, as A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , evil tidings.
Pro. 23:31.-“When it giveth his eye (i.e., colour) in the cup.”
Isa. 28:9.-“Whom shall he make to understand the hearing?” i.e., as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , the doctrine. (See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin).

Isa. 28:19.-“And it shall be a vexation only to understand the hearing”:
ie., the rumour.

Isa. 53:1.-“Who hath believed our hearing”: i.e., what they have heard:
ie., our report, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] So Joh. 12:38. Rom. 10:16. Gal. 3:2;
Gal. 3:5.

Eze. 1:4.-“As the eye (i.e., colour) of amber.” So Eze. 8:2; Eze. 10:9.
Eze. 7:26.-Here, the Metonymy is boldly translated “rumour upon
rumour.” Lit., “hearing upon hearing.”

Hab. 3:2.-“O Lord, | have heard thy hearing”: i.e., thy words, what thou
hast said for me to hear. A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] : “speech” (but see margin).
See under Polyptoton.

Oba. 1:1.-“We have heard a hearing from the Lord”: {6., a rumour, as
in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.]
Mat. 4:24.-“And his hearing went throughout all Syria”: i.e., his fame;
what was heard; as A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] So Mat. 14:1. Mar. 1:28.
Mat. 24:6.-“And hearing (i.e., rumours) of wars.” So Mar. 13:7.
Joh. 12:38.-See Isa. 53:1.

2. Faith is put for the thing believed
Act. 6:7.-“And a great company of the Priests were obedient to the
faith”: i.e., to the doctrine believed.
Gal. 1:23.-“He ... now preacheth the faith which once be destroyed”:
ie., the doctrine which he had now believed.
Gal. 3:23.-“Before faith came”: i.e., before the true doctrine of the
Gospel was revealed.
Gal. 5:5.-“We through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by
faith”: ie., life eternal, which is promised to the righteous by faith: “The
just shall live ({6., have eternal life) by faith.”
Eph. 4:5.-“One Lord, one faith (i.e., doctrine), one baptism.”
1Ti. 4:1.-“Some shall depart from the faith”: i.e., from the doctrine of
Christ. See under Tapeinosis and Synathroesmus.
Tit. 1:13.-“That they may be sound in the faith”: i.e., the doctrine of the
Gospel.
Jud. 1:3.-“Earnestly contend for the faith”: i.e., the true doctrine of
Christ.
Rev. 2:13.-“And hast not denied my faith”: {6., the doctrine believed
concerning me.

3. Hope is put for God, or for the object on which it is set
Psa. 71:5.-“Thou art my hope”: i.e., the One in whom | hope.
Isa. 20:5.-“They shall be afraid and ashamed of Ethiopia their
expectation ({6., the help they expected from the Ethiopians) and of
Egypt their glory (i.e., the Egyptians in whom they gloried).” See verse
6.
Pro. 13:12.-“Hope deferred maketh the heart sick.” Here, it is not hope
that is deferred, but the object hoped for.
Jer. 14:8.-“O the hope of Israel, the saviour thereof in time of trouble”:
i.e., the God in Whom Israel hopes.
Jer. 17:7.-“Whose hope the Lord is.”

Jer. 17:13.-“The hope of Israel”: the God in Whom Israel hoped.

Jer. 50:7.-“The hope of their fathers”: i.e., the God in Whom their
fathers hoped.

Act. 28:20.-“For the hope of Israel | am bound with this chain”: i.e., for
the Messiah’s sake, Whom Israel hoped for. See 26:6-8.

Rom. 8:24.-“Hope (/е., the object hoped for) that is seen is not hope.”
See Epanadiplosis.

1Ti. 1:1.-“The Lord Jesus Christ, our hope”: {6., Who is the object of
our hope.

Tit. 2:13.-“Looking for that blessed hope”: i.e., that blessed object of
hope, the coming of Christ.
4. Love is put for the person or object loved
Jer. 2:33.-“Why trimmest thou thy way to seek love?” i.e., an object to
love.
Jer. 12:7.-“I have given the love of my soul into the hand of her
enemies”: i.e., the dearly beloved, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] See margin.
Hos. 9:10.-“Their abominations were according to their love”: i.e., to
their idols, which were the objects of their love. Not “as they loved,” as
in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.]

5. Desire is put for the person or thing desired

Gen. 27:15.-“And Rebekah took desirable of her eldest son Esau”:
i.e., the coveted raiment which perhaps Jacob had desired.
Isa. 32:12.-“They shall lament for the teats, for the fields of desire”:
ie., which they desired. The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has treated it as Enallage,
and rendered it “pleasant fields.” See margin.
Isa. 44:9.-“Their delectable things shall not profit’: ie., their things
which they have desired.

Jer. 3:19.-“How shall | give thee a land of desire”: i.e., a land to be
desired. See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] margin.

Lam. 1:7.-“Jerusalem remembered ... all her things of desire”: {6., all
the things she had desired. The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] renders it by Enallage,
“pleasant,” and, in margin, desirable. So verse 10.

Lam. 2:4.-“He stood with his right hand as an adversary, and slew all
the desires of the eye”: i.e., all the objects that the eye desired.

Eze. 24:16.-"The desire of thine eyes”: i.e., thy wife, who is the object
of thy desire. See under Periphrasis, and compare verses 18, 21 and
25.

Dan. 9:23.-“Thou art a man of desires”: /е., a man greatly to be
desired. Or, as A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] , “greatly beloved.” See 10:11, 19.

Hos. 9:16.-“Yet will | slay the desires of their womb”: i.e., that which
the womb had desired and brought forth.

Amo. 5:11.-“Ye have planted vineyards of desire”: i.e., vineyards
which ye had desired. See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin.

Hag. 2:7.-“The desire of all nations shall come”: i.e., Christ, who shall
be the object desired by all nations.

1Jn. 2:16.-“The lust of the eyes”: i.e., that which the eyes desire.

6. Fear is put for God who is feared, or for any object of fear
Gen. 31:42.-“The fear of Isaac”: i.e., the God whom Isaac feared. So
verse 53.

Psa. 53:5 (6).-“There were they in great fear.” Heb.: “There they
feared a fear”: i.e., there was something that they were greatly afraid
of. See under Polyptoton.

Isa. 8:13.-“Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself; and let him be your
fear”: i.e., the God Whom ye shall fear.

Pro. 1:26.-“I will mock when your fear cometh”: /.е., when that which
you fear shall come. So verse 27.

Pro. 3:25.-“Be not afraid of sudden fear”: i.e., of a sudden thing to be
feared. See under Antimereia.

2Co. 5:11.-“Knowing, then, the fear of the Lord”: i.e., knowing,
therefore, the Lord as one who is to be feared.
7. Other actions are put for the object connected with, or related
to them; which object is shown by the context
Gen. 43:11.-“Таке of the praise of the earth”: /е., the fruits which
adorn and beautify the earth. The Chaldee has “which is praised in the
earth”; and the Heb.: cir (zahmor) means to adorn. See the first
occurrence in Jdg. 5:3 (in Piel), where it is used in connection with a
song in praise of God. But cir does not mean primarily to praise, but
to embellish or adorn or trim the song.

Exo. 15:2.-“The Lord is my strength and song”: i.e., He whom | praise
in my song. So Psa. 118:14, and compare verses 15, 16.

Here, “strength” is the Metonymy of effect: i.e., producing strength in
me. So that the whole verse means: “Jah maketh me strong, and is
the subject of my song.”

Deu. 28:8.-“And in every sending forth of thy hand”: i.e., all things
which thy hand accomplishes. So Deu. 12:7.

1Sa. 1:27.-“And the Lord hath given me my petition (i.e., Samuel)
which | asked Him for’: i.e., the object of my prayer. See under
Paronomasia.

Job. 6:8.-“Oh that | might have my request; and that God would grant
me my expectation”: i.e., the object of my prayer and desire. See A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] margin.

Isa. 60:1.-“Arise, shine; for thy light (1.6., He who is thy light) is come.”
Luk. 16:15.-“That which is highly esteemed among men is
abomination in the sight of God”: i.e., a thing abominated by God.

Act. 1:4.-“They should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the
promise of the Father”: i.e., that which the Father had promised.

Gal. 3:2; Gal. 3:5.-“The hearing of faith”: i.e., the report which faith
believed.

2Th. 1:11.-“We pray ... that our God would count you worthy of this
calling”: i.e., of that for which He has called you: viz., to deliver you out
of the tribulation; so that He may be glorified in His saints before He
comes forth “in flaming fire,” etc. (verses 8 and 9). For that coming
forth in judgment will not take place until He shall have come. (ἔλθῃ,
elthee), thus to be glorified: ἔλθῃ is the 2nd Aor. Subj. Compare its use
in Mat. 21:40. Luk. 17:10. Mar. 8:38. Joh. 4:25; Joh. 16:13. Act. 23:35.
Rom. 11:27. 1Co. 16:3. 2Co. 3:16, etc.

Heb. 11:13.-“These all died in faith, not having received the promises”:
ie., the things which had been promised. The promises were what
they had received, but not the things promised.
vi. The SIGN is put for the thing signified
1. Nouns

Gen. 49:10.-“The sceptre shall not depart from Judah ... until Shiloh
come.” Here the sceptre (i.e., the Rod of tribal supremacy) is put for
Him who is entitled to hold it. So Isa. 14:5. Zec. 10:11, etc.
Exo. 18:10.-“Blessed be the Lord, who hath delivered you out of the
hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who hath
delivered the people out of the hand of the Egyptians.” Here, the
“hand” is put for power, of which it is the sign; and it is repeated three
times in order to emphasize the greatness of the power and the
wonderful deliverance from it.
Num. 18:8.-“By reason of the anointing.” Here, the anointing is put for
the Priesthood, of which it was the sign.
2Sa. 12:10.-“The sword shall never depart from thy house”: i.e.,
manifested hostility.
1К!. 19:10.-“Thrown down thy altars”: /е., given up thy worship (of
which the altars were the sign and symbol).
Job. 5:21.-“Thou shalt be hid from the scourge (i.e., power) of the
tongue.”
Psa. 23:4.-“Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me”: i.e., Thy care and
Thy defence, of which these were the signs. The Shepherd carried
two implements: viz., the “rod,” to help the sheep, and the “club,” to
destroy the sheep’s enemies.
Psa. 89:4 (5).-“Thy seed will | establish for ever, and build up thy
throne to all generations”: i.e., will raise up those (esp. One) who shall
sit upon it.

Psa. 89:39 (40).-“Thou hast profound his crown by casting it to the
ground”: i.e., thou hast removed him from his kingly position.

Psa. 44:6 (7).-“I will not trust in my bow, neither shah my sword save
me”: i.e., military science, of which the bow and sword were the signs.
Isa. 2:4.-Here, swords and plowshares, etc., are used for war and
peace, of which they were the signs and symbols. See also under
Polysyndeton and Syllogismus.

Jer. 47:5.-“Baldness is come upon Gaza”: i.e., grief, from the practice
of shaving the head in grief.

Lam. 5:9.-“We gat our bread with our lives (i.e., with peril of our lives,
as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] ), because of the sword (i.e., the fightings) of the
wilderness.” So Eze. 21:3-4 (8, 9).

Eze. 7:15.-“The sword (i.e., war, or destruction) is without.”

Eze. 21:26.-“Remove the diadem, and take off the crown.” Here the
diadem and crown are put for the symbols of royalty of him who wears
them.
Mat. 23:2 -“The Scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses’ seat.”
Here “sit” is put for public teaching (Mat. 26:55. Luk. 4:20. Joh. 8:2.
Act. 22:3), or for judgment (Exo. 18:13. Jdg. 5:10. Mat. 27:19. Psa.
29:10; Psa. 110:1).

“Moses” is put for the Law and precepts and authority of Moses.

“Seat” is put for right, authority or rule.
Rom. 13:4.-“He weareth not the sword in vain”: i.e., he does not wear
merely the sign, but he has the power which it signifies.
Luk. 11:52.-“Ye have taken away the key of knowledge”: i.e., the
means or power of entering into, or the right of attaining knowledge.
Act. 15:10.-“Now therefore why tempt ye God, to put a yoke ({6., a
burden) on the neck of the disciples.”
Rev. 3:7.-“The key of David.” The key is put for governmental
authority, of which it is the sign.

2. Verbs
Gen. 21:6.-“And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh (i.e., to
rejoice), so that all that hear will laugh (i.e., rejoice) with me.”

Gen. 31:49.-“The Lord protect us when we are hidden (i.e., absent)
from one another.” The Metonymy is used so as to imply that though
hidden from one another, they were not hidden from God.

Gen. 41:40.-“Thou (Joseph) shalt be over my house, and according
unto thy word shall all my people kiss”: {6., be ruled or in subjection.
See Psa. 2:12 below, and A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin.

Deu. 10:8.-“To stand (i.e., to minister) before the Lord.”

Deu. 22:1.-“Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ox or his sheep go astray,
and hide thyself from them”: i.e., go away and leave them.

1Ki. 19:18.-“Yet | have left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees
which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not
kissed him”: i.e., have not obeyed or worshipped him.

Job. 5:22.-“At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh”: i.e., thou shalt
be secure against them.

Job. 8:21.-“Till he fill thy mouth with laughing (i.e., rejoicing), and thy
lips with shouting for joy.” See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin.

Job. 31:27.-“And my heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth
hath kissed my hand”: {6., | have made the outward sign of worship or
homage.

Psa. 2:12.-“Kiss the Son”: /е., submit to the Son, be ruled by Him.
See Gen. 41:40 above; and see under Ellipsis and Epiphonema.

Psa. 3:5 (6).-“I laid me down and slept”: i.e., was secure.
Psa. 4:8 (9).-“I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep ({6., be
perfectly secure): for thou, Lord, only makest me dwell in safety.”

Psa. 10:5.-“As for all his enemies he bloweth upon them”: i.e., he
despiseth them. A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] : puffeth at them.

Psa. 12:5 (6).-“For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the
needy, now will | arise, saith Jehovah; | will set him (1.6., each one) in
safety: he bloweth upon (i.e., he despiseth) it ({6., the oppression).”
The poor and needy being set in safety by Jehovah, despise the
oppression of the enemy. Such have the sure words of Jehovah, and
can despise the vain words of man.

Psa. 27:5.-“In the time of trouble he shall hide ({6., protect) me in his
pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide (i.e., protect) me.”
Psa. 31:20 (21).-“Thou shalt hide them ({6., protect them) in the
secret of thy presence from the pride of man.”

Psa. 64:2 (3).-“Hide (i.e., protect) me from the secret counsel of the
wicked.”

Psa. 126:2.-“Then was our mouth filled with laughter (ie., with
rejoicing), and our tongue with singing.”
Eze. 8:11.-“And there stood (i.e., ministered) before them seventy
men,” etc.
Zec. 3:1.-“And he showed me Joshua the high priest standing ({6.,
ministering) before the angel of the Lord.”
Mat. 5:47.-“If ye embrace (i.e., salute or welcome) your brethren only,
what do ye more than others?” Compare Heb. 11:13.
Luk. 6:21.-“For ye shall laugh”: i.e., rejoice; and verse 25: “Ye that
laugh (i.e., rejoice) now.”
Heb. 11:13.-“And embraced them”: i.e., welcomed, believed, and
hoped for them: i.e., the promises.
3. Connected WORDS and PHRASES

To bind and loose put for exercising of authority. Mat. 16:19; Mat.
18:18.

To open and shut is put for power of administration. Job. 12:14 :
Isa. 22:22. Rev. 3:7.

To be stiff-necked is put for pride and obstinacy. Psa. 75:5 (6).
Here it is a question whether the letter Aleph (ὢ was not wrongly
inserted in the text. If so, it alters the whole sense, and the verse
should read: “Lift not up your horn on high, nor speak arrogantly of the
Rock:” where the Rock is put by Metonymy of adjunct for God. See
also 2Ch. 30:8.

Cleanness of teeth put for famine. Amo. 4:6.

To lift up the eyes is put for implore or pray. Psa. 121:1; Psa.
123:1. Eze. 18:6; Eze. 18:15.

To lift up the head is put for lifting up the soul, or taking courage, or
rejoicing. Jdg. 8:28. Psa. 83:2. Luk. 21:28.

To lift up the face is put for boldness and courage. Deu. 28:50
(margin). Num. 6:26. Ecc. 8:1. Dan. 8:23.

To strengthen the face is put for boldness or impudence. Pro. 7:13.

To cover the face or head is put for self condemnation, or
condemnation. 2Sa. 15:30; 2Sa. 19:4. Job. 9:24. Est. 7:8. Jer. 14:4.

The face to wax pale is put for being afraid. Isa. 29:22.

To have a whore’s forehead is put for impudence. Jer. 3:3.
To bow the knee is put for compulsory submission. Isa. 45:23.
Rom. 14:11. Php. 2:10.

To give the hand is put for voluntary submission. 1Ch. 29:24. 2Ch.
30:8. Also put for fellowship or confederacy. Lam. 5:6. Jer. 50:15. Eze.
17:18. Gal. 2:9.

To place the hand on is put for association. Lev. 6:2.

To lift up the hand, or hands is put for swearing an oath, or making
a promise. Gen. 14:22. Exo. 6:8. Psa. 106:26. Isa. 3:7 (marg. [Note:
arg. Margin.] ). Put also for praying. Psa. 28:2; Psa. 68:31 (32). 1Ti.
2:8.

To strike hands is put for making a promise, or bargain. Job. 17:3.

To put hands on the head is put for grief. Jer. 2:37. 2Sa. 13:19.
To put the hand or hands on the mouth is put for silence, or for
having no answer, Jdg. 18:19. Job. 21:5; Job. 29:9; Job. 40:4. Mic.
7:16.

To pour water on the hands is put for serving. 2Ki. 3:11.

To fill the hand or hands is put for consecrating anyone to a sacred
office, because the person so appointed received the sign or symbol
of the office in his hands. Exo. 28:41; Exo. 29:9; Exo. 29:33; Exo.
29:35; Exo. 32:29 (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ). Lev. 8:33; Lev. 16:32.
Num. 3:3. Jdg. 17:5; Jdg. 17:12, ete.

To cover the feet is put for performing a duty of nature, because
when stooping the garments fell over the feet. This is a beautiful
example of Euphemy (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). Jdg. 3:24. 1Sa. 24:3.

Eating and drinking is put for living or being alive. Exo. 24:11.
Similarly looking is used in Gen. 16:13, because Hagar had seen God
and yet lived. Compare Gen. 32:30 and Jdg. 13:22.

The breaking of bonds (of various kinds) is put for liberating from
servitude. Psa. 2:3.

The clothing in sackcloth put for sorrowing. Job. 16:15. Psa. 35:13;
Psa. 69:11 (12); Lam. 2:10. Joe. 1:13. Amo. 8:10, etc.

Making bald is put for grieving. Mic. 1:16.

Licking the dust is put for defeat and submission. Isa. 49:23. Psa.
72:9.

Smiting the thigh is put for grief. Jer. 31:19. So also is

Sitting on the ground. Lam. 2:10.

Not discerning the right hand from the left is put for extreme youth.
Jon. 4:11.

(a). The whole utterance, which may consist of admonition, instruction,
etc., sometimes consists of sign or symbol, and the signs are thus put
for the things signified

2Ki. 4:29.-The instructions given by Elisha to Gehazi.
Jer. 9:17-18.-Jehovah to Jeremiah.
Jer. 10:18. And compare verses 9, 19, 20,
See also Jer. 46:19, Eze. 39:9-10. Isa. 2:4. Amo. 5:16. Mat. 24:20.
Luk. 22:36; Luk. 22:38. 2Co. 7:3.
vii. The NAME of a person for the person himself; or the name of
a thing for the thing itself

(1) The person, when that person is Divine. Deu. 28:58. Psa. 20:1 (2);

115:1. Pro. 18:10. Isa. 30:27. Jer. 10:25. Mic. 5:4 (3). Joh. 1:12; Joh.

3:18; Joh. 17:6; Joh. 20:31. Act. 3:16; Act. 4:12; Act. 5:41; Act. 10:43.

Ίνη. 2:12, ete.

(2) When the person is human. Act. 1:15. Rev. 3:4; Rev. 11:13
(margin), etc.

(3) The name of a man for his posterity. Deu. 25:17. Exo. 5:2.
Num. 23:21; Num. 24:5; Num. 24:17. Deu. 33:28. 1Ki. 18:17-18. Psa.
14:7. Amo. 7:9; Amo. 7:16. Gen. 9:27. Mal. 1:2-3. Rom. 9:13.

(4) The name of a thing for the thing itself. Eph. 1:21 : Dignities.
Php. 2:9.

Metalepsis; or, Double Metonymy
Two Metonymies, one contained in the other, but only one expressed
Met’-a-lep’sis, from µετά (méta), behind, and λείπω (leipq), to leave,
a leaving behind.

The Figure is so called, because something more is deficient than
in Metonymy, which has to be supplied entirely by the thought, rather
than by the association or relation of ideas, as is the case in
Metonymy.

This something more that is deficient consists of another
Metonymy, which the mind has to supply. Hence Metalepsis is a
double or compound Metonymy, or a Metonymy in two stages, only
one of which is expressed.

Thus, for example, when we say that a man “drank his house,” we
do not mean that he drank the building of bricks and mortar with its
contents, but we first use the word “house,” and put it by Metonymy for
the money it fetched when sold, and then, by a second Metonymy, the
“money” is put for the drink it purchased, which was what the man
actually drank.
So Virgil (Buc. Ecl i. 70) speaks of Meliboeus returning to hit home
“after some ears of corn,” where the “ears of corn” are first put (by
Metonymy of Subject) for the harvest-time, and then the harvest-time
is put mentally (by Metonymy of Adjunct) for a years So that what
Meliboeus means is that he will return after some years.
The Latins called the figure TRANSUMPTIO: i.e., a taking across from
one to another. They sometimes called it TRANSLATIO, a transferring
across; but this latter name is best reserved as representing Metaphor
rather than Metalepsis.

We have one or two examples:-
Gen. 19:8.-“Therefore came they under the shadow of my roof.”
Here, “roof” is first put (by Synecdoche) for the whole house, of which
it was a part: and then the house is put for the protection it afforded.
Ecc. 12:5.-The Heb. of this is literally “and the caper-berry shall be
powerless.”

Almost every part of the caper-berry plant was used to make
condiments; but the berries were specially provocative of appetite,
though not restricted to sexual desire. Hence it was called faéida
(aveeyqbnah), desire or appetite, from faa (avah), to desire.

Here, then, we have first the plant or berry put for the condiments
made from it, and then the condiments put for the desire they created.
The meaning is that not only shall appetite or desire fail, but that
condiments and stimulants shall be powerless to produce their usual
effect.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] makes the sentence
absurd by translating the figure literally: “The caper-berry shall fail.”
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , with its elegant idiomatic version, much better conveys
the essential meaning of the passage: “And desire shall fail.”

Isa. 33:15.-“That stoppeth his ears from hearing of bloods.” Here,
“bloods” is first put for blood-shedding, and then blood-shedding is put
for the murderers who shed it. See Pro. 1:11.

In the New Testament, the expression “the blood of Christ” is the
figure Metalepsis; because first the “blood” is put (by Synecdoche) for
blood-shedding: i.e., the death of Christ, as distinct from His life; and
then His death is put for the perfect satisfaction made by it, for all the
merits of the atonement effected by it: /е., it means not merely the
actual blood corpuscles, neither does it mean His death as an act, but
the merits of the atonement effected by it and associated with it.
Hos. 14:2 (3).-“So will we render the calves of our lips.” Here, “calves”
are put by Metonymy (of Subject) for sacrifices, and then, by another
Metonymy, these sacrifices are put for the confession and praises
rendered. See under Metonymy, pages 574 and 575.
Rom. 3:25.-“Through faith in his blood”: i.e., through faith in the merits
of the atonement accomplished by it.
Rom. 5:9.-“Being now justified by his blood”: i.e., his atonement.
Eph. 1:7.-“Redemption through his blood”: i.e., through the merits of
His atoning death.
Eph. 2:13.-"But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometimes were far off
are made nigh by the blood of Christ’: i.e., by His death, not by His
life: yet not by His death alone, but by the atonement made in His
obedient act in dying for His people.

So Col. 1:14; Col. 1:20. Heb. 9:12; Heb. 9:14; Heb. 10:19; Heb.
12:24; Heb. 13:12. 1Pe. 1:2; 1Pe. 1:19.
1Jn. 1:7.-"The blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all
sin.” Here, when it is a question of “walking in the light,” the saved
sinner is reminded of that which put him there and which alone can
keep him there. Whereas, in chapter 2:1 where it is a question of sin
(“If any man sin”), the sinful child is reminded, not of the blood, but of
the Father, with whom Christ, the righteous One, is the Advocate, to
show that relationship has not been broken.

Rev. 1:5.-“Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his
own blood”: i.e., loosed us from our sins by His atonement, which was
accomplished by His death (reading λύσαντι (/usanti), freed, instead of
λούσαντι (lousanti), washed, with all the Critical Texts and R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] ).

Here note that ἐν (en), whose first meaning is in, must not be so
taken here, or in all the parallel passages; we must take it as meaning
by or through, a meaning which it frequently has: e.g., Mat. 9:34 : “He
casteth out devils through (ἐν) the prince of the devils.” Mat. 5:34-35 :
“Swear not at all, neither by (ἐν) heaven ... nor by (ἐν) the earth.” Gal.
3:11 : “No man is justified by (ἐν) the law.” 2Ti. 2:10 : “Salvation which
is in (ἐν) Christ Jesus”: i.e., by or through Him; in virtue of His atoning
death. In this very book (Rev. 5:9), it is rendered “by thy blood.”

So, here, in Rev. 1:5, it must not be rendered “in his blood,” which
is not only contrary to Old Testament type (where nothing was ever
washed in blood! which would have defiled and made unclean instead
of cleansing!) but is contrary to the letter as well as the spirit of the
Word. Rev. 1:5 means washed us or loosed us from our sins by, or in
virtue of, through the merits of, His atonement. So Rev. 7:14.

So that such expressions are to be avoided, as “Washed in the
blood of the Lamb”; and the sentiment contained in the verse:-

“There is a fountain filled with blood,

Drawn from Immanuel’s veins:
And sinners plunged beneath that flood,
Lose all their guilty stains.”

All such expressions are contrary to physiology and common
sense.

We lose nothing of the facts, but gain immensely as to their
meaning, when we understand that, by Metalepsis, “blood” is put for
death, and “death” for the atonement made by it and all its infinite
merits.

In like manner “the Cross” is put first for the crucifixion as an act,
or for Him who was crucified thereon: and then this is put for the
resulting merits of His atonements procured thereby.

1Со. 1:17-18.-‘The preaching of the cross.” Paul did not preach the
cross, nor did he speak merely of the crucifixion (2:2), but of all the
blessed results, not only of that death, but of the resurrection also.
Gal. 6:14.-“God forbid that | should glory, save in the cross of our Lord
Jesus Christ”: i.e., not the wooden instrument of death, nor the act of
crucifixion; but he gloried in all that this meant for him, all the precious
merits of Christ’s atonement and the blessings resulting from it.

Col. 1:20.-“And, having made peace through the blood of his cross.”
Here, again, “cross” is put for His death, and His death is put for all its
meritorious results.

It is by forcing the word “cross” into a literal meaning in such
passages as the above that the Church of Rome has appeared to
have a Scriptural sanction for its reverence for and adoration of “the
cross.”
The reader may easily see where the word “cross” is used literally
and historically and where it is used figuratively. If the latter be
substituted for the former, not only shall we introduce much error, but
we shall lose much of precious Scriptural truth and teaching.

Synecdoché; or, Transfer

The exchange of one idea for another associated idea

Syn-ek’-do-kee. Greek, συνεκδοχή, from σύν (sun), together with, and
ἐκδοχή, a receiving from. A figure by which one word receives
something from another which is internally associated with it by the
connection of two ideas: as when a part of a thing is put by a kind of
Metonymy for the whole of it, or the whole for a part. The difference
between Metonymy and Synecdoché lies in this; that in Metonymy, the
exchange is made between two related nouns; while in Synecdoché,
the exchange is made between two associated ideas.

Synecdoché of the Genus is where the genus is put for a species.
Synecdoché of the Species is where a species is put for the
genus.
Synecdoché of the Whole is where the whole is put for a part: and
Synecdoché of the Part is where a part is put for the whole.
These four divisions may be further described and set forth as
follows:-
|. Synecdoché of the GENUS.
i. All for the greater part.
ii. Universal affirmative does not affirm particularly.
iii. Universal negative does not deny particularly.
iv. Universals for particulars.
v. Wider meanings for narrower.
Il. Synecdoché of the SPECIES.
i. Many for all.
ii. Narrower meaning for wider.

Ш. Proper names for common.

iv. A species put for whole genus.

v. Verbs: special for general.

vi. One example or specimen for all kinds.
Ill. Synecdoché of the WHOLE.

i. All or every for the whole.

ii. Collective for the particular.

iii. The whole for one of its parts.

iv. A place for a part of it.

v. Time for a part of it.
IV. Synecdoché of the PART.

i. An integral part of man (individually) for the whole man,

etc.
ii. An integral part of men (collectively) for the whole.

iii. А part of a thing for the whole thing.

iv. A part of a time for the whole time.

I. Synecdoché of the Genus:
Where the genus is put for the species; or universals for particulars.
i. All is put for the greater part

Exo. 9:6.-“And all the cattle of Egypt died”: i.e., all kinds of cattle, not
all the individual animals of all species. The Heb. has no article.

The kinds of cattle are particularised in verse 3. This must be so,
for no sane writer could stultify himself by meaning “all” in any other
sense, when he goes on to speak of other beasts immediately after, in
verse 10.

Exo. 9:25.-“And the hail smote throughout all the land of Egypt,” etc.:
ie., all parts of it, ог the greater part.

Exo. 32:3.-“And all (/е., the greater part of) the people break off the
golden earrings which were in their ears”: i.e., that part of the people
who wore them.

Verse 26: “And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together
unto him”: {.6., all who had not joined in the idolatry, for see Deu. 33:9.
There were some Levites who were not spared.

Deu. 28:64.-“And the Lord shall scatter thee among all peoples”: i.e.,
among all kinds of people, i.e., all nations.

2Sa. 16:22.-“In the sight of all Israel”: Jit, for all Israel's eyes: i.e., for
anybody to see that chose.

2Sa. 17:24.-“And Absalom ... and all the men of Israel”: i.e., the
greater part of Israel.

1Ch. 14:17.-“And the fame of David went out into all lands”: i.e., into
lands in all parts of the world.
Psa. 22:7 (8).-“All they that see me laugh me to scorn”: i.e., the great
majority; for there were many that believed.

Psa. 118:10.-“All nations compassed me about”: i.e., a great many.
Isa. 2:2.-“And all nations shall flow unto it”: {.Θ., many from all nations.
See verse 3, and Mic. 4:1.

Jer. 26:9.-“And all the people were gathered against Jeremiah in the
house of the Lord”: {8., a great many or most of the people. Not
everyone; as is clear from verse 16, where “the princes and all the
people” spake “unto the priests and to the prophets.” So verse 18.
Hos. 7:4.-“They are all adulterers”: i.e., most of them, or as a whole.
Hag. 2:7.-“I will shake all (i.e., people in all) nations, and the desire of
all (i.e., many in all nations) shall come.”

Mat. 3:5.-“Then went out to him Jerusalem and all (i.e., people from all
parts of) Judzea, and all the region round about Jordan.”

Mat. 8:34.-“And, behold, the whole (i.e., nearly the whole) city came
out to meet Jesus.”

Mar. 1:33.-“And all the city was gathered together at the door.” Here
“all” is put for the greater part.
Mar. 9:23.-“All things are possible to him that believeth”: {6., all things
comprehended in the promise. Not all things indiscriminately. Faith
always has respect to what is said or promised.

Joh. 1:16.-“And of his fulness have all we received”: i.e., “all” the “we”
who have received grace. The “all” is thus defined and limited.

Joh. 10:8.-“All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers”:
i.e., all who did not enter in by the door, but climbed up some other
way. See verse 1.

Other examples may be found in Mat. 10:22; Mat. 16:19; Mat.
18:18; Mat. 21:26; Mat. 24:9. Luk. 15:1. 1Co. 6:2; 1Co. 9:19; 1Co.
9:22; 1Co. 13:7. Php. 2:21; Php. 4:13. Col. 1:28. Heb. 6:16.

ii. When “all” and “every,” as universal affirmations, extend not
to all the individuals, but to all kinds; or all that are specified or
implied
Gen. 24:10.-“All the goods of his master were in his hand”: {6., all that

his master had given him. Compare verse 53.
2Ki. 8:9 --“So Hazael went to meet him, and took a present in his
hand (Metonymy for “with him”) and every good thing in Damascus”:
ie., of every kind of, or all manner of good things. Hazael did not strip
Damascus.

Joe. 2:28 (3:1).-“And it shall come to pass afterward that | will pour
out my spirit upon all flesh”: i.e., upon all kinds of people out of all
nations.

Here the figure is in the word “flesh,” and the word “all” is therefore
to be taken literally. The “all flesh” is used in distinction from “Israel”:
which before was the only People to enjoy the special gifts and calling
of God.

Zep. 2:14.-“And flocks shall lie down in the midst of her, all the beasts
of the nations”: i.e., all manner of beasts.

Mat. 4:23.-“And healing every sickness”: i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , “all manner of disease.”
Luk. 11:42.-“Ye tithe mint, and rue, and every herb, and pass over
judgment апа the love of God”: {6., herb of every (tithable) kind, or, as
in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , “all manner of herbs.”
Joh. 1:9.-We must take this with the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] margin. “This was the true light, which lighteth every man,
coming into the world”: i.e., lighteth every man, now, without
distinction, not without exception. Hitherto only Israel had the true
light-the Shechinah or presence of Jehovah. Henceforth this
distinction was to be done away: and every man (i.e., all to whom the
Son should reveal the Father, Mat. 11:25-26) would be thus
enlightened. Every man who is enlightened, is enlightened by Christ.
Joh. 12:32.-‘l, if | be lifted up from the earth, will draw all unto me”:
ie., all without distinction; clearly, not all without exception, as this
would be contrary both to fact and experience. It must, therefore, be
the figure Synecdoché; by which the genus is put for the species; and
“all? means people of all sorts and conditions and nations and
tongues, as distinguished from the one nation, Israel, which heretofore
had been partaker of the Divine favour.

Act. 10:12.-“Wherein were all the quadrupeds of the earth”: i.e., every
kind, both clean and unclean; as it goes on to describe the species, for
which the genus is thus put: viz., “wild beasts and creeping things and
fowls of the air.” The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] correctly renders it “all manner of
four-footed beasts,” etc.
1Ti. 2:4.-“Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the
knowledge of the truth.”

Here the “all” is the same as in verse 1, and must mean all kinds of
men, the genus being put for the species.

In verse 2, some of them are named: and this is in
contradistinction to the former dispensation; when salvation was
confined to the Jews (Joh. 4:22); but now it is extended to people out
of all tongues, and nations, and peoples.

Heb. 2:9.-“That he by the grace of God should taste death for every
man”: i.e., all manner of men, without distinction.

It cannot mean without exception, or else every man must be
saved, and if it be taken as literally as that, then all women are
excluded, for this word all is masculine. See below under Synecdoché
of the Whole for part (Div. ΙΙΙ. sec. iv.).

Heb. 13:4.-“Marriage is honourable in all’: /е., all kinds of degrees
which the law of God allows, or all cases in which persons are entitled
to marry. Otherwise it cannot be honourable.

2Pe. 3:9.-“Not willing that any should perish.” Here, the word “willing”
is βούλομαι (boulomai), to be willing or disposed, and not θέλω
(thelq), as in 1Ti. 1:4, which means {ο purpose, determine, or design.
Hence, it means “is not disposed that any kind of person should
perish, but that all without distinction should come to repentance.”

“Whosoever” is to be taken in the same way; as meaning some out
of all: the genus being put for the species: i.e., а/ of a properly and
carefully defined class or species. That is to say, “Whosoever” fulfils
certain conditions: {6., “whosoever” believeth, “whosoever” willeth,
etc. It means all of these without exception, all these as distinct from
all the others who do not come within the specially described
characters, or correspond with the specified conditions.

It does not mean all of all kinds indiscriminately without exception,
but all without distinction.

The English word “whosoever” is not always the representative of
the same Greek word.

It is most often used to translate the relative pronoun 6c (hos), he
who, and is sometimes followed by ἄν (an), or ἑάν (ean), perchance.

When it is not this word, then it represents one of these following:-
πᾶς (pas), all, every (sometimes with ἄν or ἐάν, perchance). See
Mat. 5:22; Mat. 5:28. Luk. 6:47; Luk. 12:10; Luk. 12:48; Luk. 14:11;
Luk. 14:33; Luk. 16:18 (twice); 20:18 (first). Joh. 3:15-16; Joh. 4:13;
Joh. 8:34; Joh. 11:26; Joh. 12:46; Joh. 16:2; Joh. 19:12. Act. 10:43.
Rom. 2:1; Rom. 9:33; Rom. 10:11. 1Jn. 2:23; 1Jn. 3:4; 1Jn. 3:6
(twice), 9, 10, 15; 5:1, 18. 2Un. 1:9. Rev. 22:15.

πᾶς ὃς Gv (pas hos an), everyone who perchance. Luk. 12:8. Act.
2:21. Rom. 10:13.

ἅστις (hostis), anyone who. Mat. 5:39; Mat. 5:41; Mat. 7:24; Mat.
10:32-33; Mat. 12:50; Mat. 13:12 (twice); 18:4; 23:12. Mar. 8:34 Luk.
14:27. Gal. 5:4; Gal. 5:10. Jam. 2:10.

ὅσοι ἄν (hosoi an), as many as perchance. Luk. 9:6. Mar. 6:11.

ὅσπερ (hosper), who indeed. Mar. 15:6.

ei Tic (εἰ tis), if any. Rev. 14:11; Rev. 20:15.

ἐάν or ἄν τις (ean or an tis), if perchance any. Joh. 13:20; Joh.
20:23.
iii. A universal negative does not deny particularly
Exo. 20:10.-“The seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it
thou shalt not do any work”: i.e., work that is specifically forbidden:
viz., “servile” or mechanical work (Lev. 23:7-8. Num. 28:18).
1Sa. 20:26.-“Nevertheless Saul spake not anything that day”: i.e.,
concerning David or about his absence. He did speak, of course, but
not specifically about the matter referred to.
Jer. 8:6.-“No man repented him of his wickedness”: {6., scarcely any.
Mat. 5:34.-“Swear not at all’: i.e., not lightly ог thoughtlessly: the
particulars are given in verses 35 and 36.
Mat. 10:26.-“For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed”:
{8., no heavenly doctrine.
Joh. 3:32.-“And no man receiveth his testimony”: i.e., no natural man
receiveth it of himself; but only those to whom it is given of the Father.
See Mat. 11:25-26; Mat. 16:17.
Joh. 15:5.-“Without me ye can do nothing”: {6., nothing that is good
and true and right, or according to God; but a great deal that is
contrary to Him.
Joh. 18:20.-“In secret have | said nothing”: {6., nothing seditious or
criminal. In secret He had said many things, but nothing which they
particularly meant.
Act. 27:33.-‘This day is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried and
continued fasting, having taken nothing”: ᾖθ., no proper meal, or
having declined to take anything beyond proper necessaries. It is
μηδέν, not οὐδέν.
2Th. 3:11.-“For we hear that there are some which walk among you
disorderly, working not at all, but are busybodies.” The negative does
not deny working universally, but working of a particular kind: i.e., not
working officially, yet working officiously. This is a beautiful example of
Paregmenon (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ): “not ergazomenous, but
periergazomenous”: i.e., а5 we might put it, not busy with their bodies,
but busybodies.
1Ti. 6:3-4.-“If any man teacheth otherwise ... he is proud, knowing
nothing”: i.e., nothing about what he professes to teach, “the doctrine
which is according to godliness”: /е., the Mystery, the truth which
specially concerns the Church of God. See 3:16: “the great” Mystery
of godliness.

iv. Words denoting universality do not always affirm it of

particulars
Mar. 16:20.-“They went forth, and preached everywhere”: i.e.,
everywhere where they went; in every kind of place; or everywhere
where they were able to go.

Luk. 18:1.-“And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men
ought always to pray, and not to faint”: i.e., on all occasions; or at
every opportunity, and not to grow weary.

Luk. 24:53.-“And were continually in the temple”: ᾖθ., at every
opportunity, at the proper and stated times for assembling there.
Act. 28:22.-“As concerning this sect, we know that it is everywhere
spoken against”: i.e., everywhere where it is known and spoken about
it is spoken against: as it is to this present day.
1Co. 4:17.-“As | teach everywhere in every church”: i.e., as | teach in
every place where there is an assembly, or wherever | go.
v. Words of a wider meaning are used in a narrower sense. The
universal for the particular, but of the same kind
1. Flesh is put for man or mankind
When the word “all” is used in connection with “flesh” (i.e, “all flesh”), it
is literal, and the word “flesh” is the figure (Synecdoché). The literality
of the word “all” is thus emphasized.
Gen. 6:12.-“All flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth”: {6., all
mankind.
Psa. 145:21.-“And let all flesh bless his holy name”: i.e., all men-all
mankind (Heb.: “all flesh shall bless.” See verse 10).
Isa. 40:5.-“The glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh (i.e.,
all people) shall see it together.”
Isa. 66:23.-“From one sabbath to another shall all flesh (i.e., all men)
come to worship before me, saith the Lord.”
Luk. 3:6.-“And all flesh (i.e., all people) shall see the salvation of
God.”
Rom. 3:20.-“Therefore by the deeds of the law, shall no flesh be
justified in his sight.”
2. Creature is put for man

Mar. 16:15.-“Preach the gospel to every creature”: {6., to all people. A
precept fulfilled in
Col. 1:23.-“The Gospel ... which was preached to every creature
which is under heaven”: i.e., to every person without distinction.
1Pe. 2:13.-“Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man.”

The Greek is “every human creation” or creature: ἀνθρωτήνη
KTioic (anthrqpinee Ktisis): i.e., institution.

3. Domicile is put for prison
Act. 12:7.-“And a light shone in the building (οἴκημα, oikeema)”: i.e.,
the prison, a particular kind of building defined by the context. It is
called a building, for it was no longer a prison after the angel had
entered it.

4. House is put for temple
Luk. 11:51.-“From the blood of Abel ... which perished between the
altar and the House”: i.e., the temple building, as translated in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
16141
Act. 7:47.-“But Solomon built him an house”: {6., a Temple, a kind of
house.

5. Man is put for husband
Mat. 19:10.-“If the case of the man (i.e., a husband) be so with his
wife,” etc.

6. The Tongue is put for the man
As man is fallen, it generally means an evil-speaker!
Psa. 140:11 (12).-“Let not a man of tongue ({6., an evil-speaker) be
established in the earth.”
Psa. 101:5.-“Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour.”

The Heb. is “the tongue ({6., the slanderer), in the secret places of
his friend, him shall | cut off.”
Ecc. 10:11.-“Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment, and a
master of the tongue is no better”: ie., an adept in evil-speaking
(which is a particular kind of use of the tongue). See A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
margin.

7. Change is put for death

Job. 14:14.-“All the days of my appointed time will | wait, till my
change come”: i.e., till | die: dying being one of many changes
experienced by man.
Pro. 31:8.-“Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all the sons
of change.” Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] renders it in the margin “sons of
destruction,” and in the Text: “such as are appointed to destruction.”
8. Quadrupeds (τετράποδα, tetrapoda) is used for tame or
domestic animals
Act. 10:12.-“Wherein were all manner (Synecdoche of Genus) of four-
footed beasts”: {6., tame or domestic animals which are classed off,
as distinct from “wild beasts” which are also “four-footed.”

9. Statute is put for allowance, or necessary food
Gen. 47:22.-“For the priests had a statute of (or from) Pharaoh, and
did eat their statute which Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold
not their lands”: i.e., they ate, not the statute, but the food assigned to
them by one of the statutes which Pharaoh gave them.
Eze. 16:27.-“Behold, therefore, | have stretched out my hand over
thee and have diminished thy statute”: i.e., the food apportioned to
thee. A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] : “ordinary food.”
Pro. 30:8.-“Feed me with food of my statute”: {6., my statutory food.
See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] margin.
Job. 23:12.-“| have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my
appointed portion”: i.e., my ordinary allowance. The Π.Ν. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] has in the margin, literally, my own law. But
the meaning is that the Lord’s word was valued by him more than his
daily bread. The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] catches the spirit of the words and the
meaning of the figure beautifully: “my necessary food.”

10. The Bowels are put for the heart
Psa. 40:8 (9).-“Thy law is in the midst of my bowels”: i.e., “in my
heart,” as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] (but see the margin). Compare verse 10.

11. The Living are put for men
Gen. 3:20.-“And Adam called his wife’s name Eve; because she was
the mother of all living”: i.e., of all living beings, or of all people who
should live hereafter.
Psa. 143:2.-“In thy sight will no living ({6., person) be justified.” The
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] inserts the word “man”: e.g., “no man living.”
12. A Common Name is sometimes put for a proper one
A name common to many is used of one par excellence: as, when
God is called “El,” “The Strong” or “the Mighty One,” it is because,
though others are strong, He is stronger than all. Gen. 14:22; Gen.
21:33. Psa. 5:4 (5); 22:1 (2), etc.

So Christ is called “the Lord.” Mat. 21:3. Joh. 11:3; Joh. 11:12, etc.
“The Teacher.” Mat. 22:24. Joh. 11:28. “The Angel.” Gen. 48:16. Exo.
23:20, or “the Angel of the Lord.” Exo. 3:2. Jdg. 6:11. So Christ is “the
seed of the woman.” Gen. 3:15. All others are seed of some woman,
but Christ is the seed.

Moses is called “the Prophet.” Hos. 12:13 (14). Deu. 34:10-12.

The Euphrates is called “the river,” because of its magnitude. Gen.
31:21. Jos. 24:2, where the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has “flood.” Psa. 72:8; Psa.
80:11 (12). Mic. 7:12.

So the Emperor Nero is called Jord. Act. 25:26.

13. The Plural Number is put for the singular
This is not Enallage; because this singular must be and is one of the
same kind. As when Sarah said: “Sarah should have given children
suck?” Here, though the plural is used, it is used of her only son: as
she goes on to say: “for | have born him a son in his old age.” Gen.
21:7.
Gen. 46:7.-“His daughters”: {6., his one daughter” Dinah.” See verses
15, 17.

Verse 23: “The sons of Dan, Hushim”: /.е., his one son.* [Note: In
these passages there is a reading called Sevir, and in some mss.,
which has the singular number.]
1Ch. 1:41.-“The sons of Anah; Dishon.”* [Note: In these passages
there is a reading called Sevir, and in some mss., which has the
singular number.]

1Ch. 2:7.-“The sons of Carmi; Achar.”* [Note: In these passages there
is a reading called Sevir, and in some mss., which has the singular
number.]

Verse 8: “The sons of Etham; Azariah.”* [Note: In these passages
there is a reading called Sevir, and in some mss., which has the
singular number.]

Verse 31: “The sons of Appaim; Ishi. And the sons of Ishi;
Sheshan. And the children of Sheshan; Ahlai.” This Ahlai was a
daughter (see verse 34)!
1Ch. 7:12.-“Hushim, the sons of Aher.”
2Ch. 24:25.-“For the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest”: i.e.,
Zechariah his son. See verses 20, 21.* [Note: In these passages there
is a reading called Sevir, and in some mss., which has the singular
number.]

Mar. 1:2. Joh. 6:45. Act. 7:42.-The word “prophets” is put for the
singular, because in only one prophet is the prophecy “written” (Mal.
3:1). But the case is different with Mat. 2:23. “That it might be fulfilled
which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be called a Nazarene.” A
difficulty is created by supposing that Nazarene is from netzer, a
branch (a word used of Christ only in Isaiah).

But apart from the most improbable, if not impossible etymology, it
does not say it was written. It says it was spoken; and who will deny
that many prophets may have spoken and prophesied of this Branch?
Some prophecies were written and not spoken; some were spoken
and not written; while others were both spoken and written. The same
explanation may be given of Mat. 27:9 and Act. 13:40 : where the
preposition “in” means “by.”

Il. Synecdoche of the Species
This is when the Species is put for the Genus (the opposite of the
above), or when particulars are put for universals.

i. Many is sometimes put for all
Isa. 53:12.-“And he bare the sin of many.” Yes, “many,” but for а// His
own people according to verse 6, Heb. 9:28, and Mat. 1:21.
Dan. 12:2.-“And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall
awake”: i.e., all to whom the prophecy refers. See Joh. 5:28. But
“avery man in his own order’; or rank and time and according to the
Dispensation.
Rom. 8:29.-“That he might be the first-born among many brethren”:
i.e., many relatively to others; but 8// with respect to his own brethren.
Joh. 6:50.-“This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that
anyone may eat thereof, and not die”: i.e., everyone who does eat of
it.
ii. Words of a limited and special sense are used with a wider and
more universal meaning

1. Man is used for both sexes, men and women
See Psa. 1:1; Psa. 32:1; Psa. 112:1. Jer. 17:5; Jer. 17:7, and so
frequently as not to need further citation, or to be given in full.

2. One Relationship is put for, and includes others

Psa. 22:4 (5).-“Our fathers trusted in thee”: ᾖθ., all who had lived
before them and trusted in God are included.
Psa. 106:6.-“We have sinned with our fathers”: i.e., with all who have
gone before.

2Sa. 9:7.-“And David said unto him, Fear not, for | will surely show
thee kindness for Jonathan thy father’s sake, and will restore thee all
the land of Saul thy father”: i.e., thy grandfather.

2Sa. 19:28.-Mephibosheth said to David, “All of my father’s house
were but dead men before my lord the king”: he means his father’s
father.
Dan. 5:2; Dan. 5:11.-In verse 18 Daniel, speaking to Belshazzar, calls
Nebuchadnezzar (by Synecdoché) his father, whereas he was his
grandfather. See the margin of verse 2, 11. Daniel made no mistake,
but he makes use of a common and well known figure of speech.
1Ki. 15:10; 1Ki. 15:13.-Asa’s grandmother is called his “mother.” See
margin of verse 10.
Jdg. 9:1.-“Brethren’ is put for other relations. So also
Gen. 13:8; Gen. 31:23; 1Ch. 12:29, where it is rendered “kindred.”
See margin.
Jerome classifies four kinds of “brethren”:-“brethren” by

1. Nature. Gen. 27:1.

2. Nation. Deu. 15:3.

3. Kindred. Gen. 13:8.

4. Affection. Psa. 133:1, etc., etc.
Exo. 1:7.-“Sons” are put for posterity. So also Jer. 31:29.
Gen. 29:5.-Laban the “son” of Nahor is put for his grandson.
Gen. 24:48.-Rebecca called Abraham's “brother’s daughter,” when
she was the daughter of Bethuel and granddaughter of Nahor, not of
Abraham.
2Sa. 19:24.-Mephibosheth is called “the son of Saul.” “Son” is here
put (by Synecdoché) for his grandson.
Jos. 7:24.-Achan is called “the son of Zerah,” which is put for great
grandson. See verse 1. So
Mat. 1:1.-Christ is called “the Son of David” in a like way. The word
“son” being used in a wide signification. So Mat. 9:27; Mat. 12:23; Mat.
15:22; Mat. 20:30-31; Mat. 21:9; Mat. 21:15; Mat. 22:42. Mar. 12:35.
Luk. 18:38-39. Compare Rom. 1:3. 2Ti. 2:8. Rev. 22:16.

Hence David is called his father (Luk. 1:32).

Zacchzeus is in the same way called a “son of Abraham” (Luk.
19:9). Compare Luk. 13:16.

All the Jews called Abraham their “father” (Luk. 1:73. Joh. 8:39,
see verse 56. Act. 7:2. Rom. 4:1).

The Samaritans called Jacob their “father” (Joh. 4:12).

iii. A proper name is put for a common; an individual is put for many;
and the particular is put for the universal

Isa. 63:16.-“Thou art our father, though Abraham be ignorant of us,
and Israel acknowledge us not.”

Here, the individuals are put for the great majority of the People of
Israel. For the patriarchs named were long since dead.
1Co. 3:6.-“Apollos” is put for any minister.
1Со. 7:16.-“Wife” and “man” are put for all wives and all husbands.

iv. A species of a thing is put for the whole genus
1. Bow, Spear, etc., are put for all kinds of arms

Psa. 44:6 (7).-“I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save
me”: i.e., | will not trust in any weapons or in any human means of
defence, but in God alone, see verse 7 (8). This may be also
Metonymy of the adjunct. So Zec. 10:4.
Psa. 46:9 (10).-“He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth:
he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the
chariot in the fire”: i.e., if all wars are to cease, all kinds of implements
of war must be included and represented in the few species named.
2. The Ass is put for all kinds of animals not sacrificed
Exo. 13:13.-“And every firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a
lamb.” The firstborn of all unclean beasts, which might not be
sacrificed, had to be redeemed (see Num. 18:15), but only one
species is named here, and in 34:20.
3. Gold is put for gifts
Psa. 72:15.-“To him shall be given of the gold of Sheba.” Here, the
principal gift is put for all other kinds of gifts. See Isa. 60:5-7.
4. Stones are put for whatever is hurtful to the soil
Job. 5:23.-“For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and
the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee.”
5. Lion is put for all kinds of wild beasts
Isa. 15:9.-“I will bring more upon Dimon, lions upon him that escapeth
of Moab.”
6. Commandment is put for all commandments and doctrines
2Pe. 2:21.-“It had been better for them not to have known the way of
righteousness, than, after they had known it, to turn from the holy
commandment delivered unto them.” So chap. 3:2.
7. Honey is put for whatever is sweet and delicious
Exo. 3:8; Exo. 3:17.-“A land flowing with milk and honey”: i.e., filled
with all satisfying and delightful things, sweet and good: i.e., a region
irrigated and fruitful, abounding with pasture and fruits of all kinds. See
Exo. 13:5; Exo. 33:3. Lev. 20:24. Num. 13:27; Num. 14:8; Num. 16:13.
Deu. 6:3; Deu. 11:9; Deu. 26:9; Deu. 26:15; Deu. 27:3; Deu. 31:20.
Jos. 5:6. Jer. 11:5; Jer. 32:22. Eze. 20:6; Eze. 20:15.
Sometimes “oil” is added, or “figs,” etc. Deu. 8:8; Deu. 32:13. 2Ki.
18:32. Eze. 16:13; Eze. 16:19.
Sometimes “butter.” Job. 20:17.
8. Bread is put for all kinds of food, including fish
It is often translated “food.” Gen. 3:19; Gen. 18:5; Gen. 39:6; Gen.
43:25; Gen. 43:31; Gen. 49:20. Lev. 3:11 (food); 21:6, * [Note: “Bread
of thy God”: i.e., food which God gives.] 8.* [Note: “Bread of thy God”:
1.8., food which God gives.] Num. 28:2. Jdg. 13:16. 1Sa. 14:24 (food);
20:27 (meat); 28:20. Job. 6:7 (meat); 20:14 (meat); Psa. 41:9 (10):
102:4 (5); 136:25; 146:7. Ecc. 9:11; Ecc. 10:19 (feast). Isa. 3:1; Isa.
58:7. Jer. 52:33; Dan. 5:1 (feast). Hos. 9:4. Mal. 1:7. Mat. 6:11; Mat.
15:2; Mat. 15:26. Luk. 14:1 : etc., etc.

Hence to “break bread” or to “eat bread” means to partake of a
meal. It is the common Hebrew idiom to this day. Just as among the
Arabs, “salt” (one particular and important kind of food) is put
universally for the whole meal and for all kinds of food, and “to take
salt” with anyone means to partake of his hospitality. So “to break
bread” means not to partake of the Lord’s supper, but to partake of an
ordinary meal with others. By Synecdoche “bread” (one kind of food)
is put for all kinds of food (or meat), and the breaking of it is merely
equivalent to carving or cutting it up. See under /diom.

When “water” is added ({6., “bread and water’), it is meant to
include all kinds of solid and liquid food necessary to eat and to drink.
See Isa. 3:1; Isa. 33:16, etc.

9. Peace is used for plenty, and happiness; and of all kinds of
earthly good and blessing
Gen. 43:23.-“Peace be to you”: i.e., peace and all blessings.
Num. 6:26.-“The Lord ... give thee peace.”
Psa. 119:165.-“Great peace (i.e., every blessing) have they which love
thy law.”
Rom. 2:10.-“But glory, honour, and peace (i.e., every earthly blessing)
to every man that worketh good,” etc. See this passage under the
figure of Ellipsis. So also Jam. 3:18.

Peace is also used of all heavenly and spiritual blessing
Isa. 57:19.-“I create the fruit of the lips; peace, peace, to him that is far
off,” etc. See under Epizeuxis.
Joh. 14:27.-“Peace | leave with you, my peace | give unto you”: i.e.,
not peace alone, which is only one species of heavenly gifts, but all
kinds of blessings. So Joh. 20:19; Joh. 20:21; Joh. 20:26.
Rom. 1:7.-“Grace to you, and peace.”
Rom. 5:1.-“Therefore having been justified by faith (ἐκ πίστεως, ek
ρἰδίεφς, on faith-principle, as opposed to /aw-principle) we have
peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ’; and with it every
heavenly blessing, as verse 2 goes on to show: “By whom we have
obtained access also by faith into this grace wherein we stand.” So
also Rom. 14:17, etc., etc.
10. Prey (C/O, that which is taken in hunting: .e., one kind of
food) is put for any and all kinds of food
Psa. 111:5.-“He hath given prey (so margin: i.e., meat) unto them that
fear him”: i.e., those who fear God will not have to hunt in vain for their
food! He will give it to them. See Psa. 147:9.
Pro. 31:15.-“She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth prey to her
household”: {6., finds and prepares their food.
Mal. 3:10.-“Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may
be prey in mine house.”

11. Blood (Heb. often Bloods) is put for murder or cruelty; or

death generally

Deu. 19:12.-“The avenger of blood”: i.e., murder.
Psa. 9:12 (13).-“When He maketh inquisition for blood”: i.e. for the
shedding of blood.

So Hos. 1:4; Hos. 4:2. Mat. 23:35; Mat. 27:24.

12. Blood is also put for guilt

Lev. 20:9.-“His blood shall be upon him”: i.e., his guilt or punishment,
etc., etc.
Deu. 19:10.-“And so blood (i.e., guilt) be not upon him.”
Deu. 21:8.-“And the blood (i.e., the guilt) shall be forgiven them.” So in
the next verse the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] actually supplies the words: “So shalt thou
put away the guilt of innocent blood from among you.”
2Ki. 24:4.-“He filled Jerusalem with innocent blood.” “Blood” (i.e.,
murder and the guilt of it) is here put as the gravest sin, for all the
other kinds of sins which Jehoiakim committed in Jerusalem.
Psa. 51:14 (16).-“Deliver me from bloods, О God”: ᾖ8., (as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] ), “from blood-guiltiness.”
Isa. 1:15.-“Your hands are full of blood”: i.e., of murders and blood-
guiltiness.

13. Clothing is put for all necessary things
Isa. 3:6.-“When a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of
his father, saying, Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler”: i.e., thou art
well dressed and therefore hast other good things beside.
14. Widows and Fatherless are put for all kinds of afflicted
Exo. 22:21.-“Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child.” Surely
it does not follow that they might afflict all others. No! one kind or class
is put for all similar kinds of helpless people.

Deu. 10:18.-“He doth execute the judgment of the fatherless and
widow.”

Deu. 27:19.-“Cursed be he that perverteth the judgment of the
stranger, fatherless, and widow.” So also Psa. 146:9. Pro. 23:10. Isa.
1:17; Isa. 1:23. Jer. 7:6; Jer. 22:3. Eze. 22:7.

Jam. 1:27.-“pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is
this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction,” etc.: i.e., all in
distress or trouble of any kind. This refers to “religion” which in itself is
nothing. All who are “in Christ” will surely manifest such evidence as
this and much more. But for those not “in Christ,” all the visiting of all
the widows and fatherless in the world will never accomplish the
stupendous miracle of Divine grace; for we are saved by grace and
not by works.
v. Verbs having a special meaning are used in a more general
sense

1. “To Ascend” is used for to come, or to enter into the thoughts,
or the mind

2Ki. 12:4.-“All the money that ascendeth upon the heart of a man”:

ie., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our

English Bible, 1611.] , “that cometh into any man’s heart” ({6.,

thoughts, his thoughts or mind).

Jer. 7:31.-“To burn their sons and daughters in the fire; which |

commanded them not, neither did it ascend upon my heart”: i.e., come

into my mind.

Eze. 38:10.-“At the same time shall things ascend upon thine heart”:

ie., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our

English Bible, 1611.] , come into thy mind.
1Co. 2:9.-“Neither have ascended upon the heart of man”: i.e., as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , “Neither have entered into the heart of man.” Here the
idiom is Hebrew, though the language is Greek.

2. To Make (with time) is used for to continue or abide
Act. 15:33.-“And, having made a time, they were let go”: i.e., as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , “After they had tarried there a space.”
Act. 18:23.-“And having made or done some time, he departed”: {6.,
as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , “After he had spent some time there.”
Act. 20:3.-“And having done three months there”: {6., as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
“And there abode three months.”
2Co. 11:25.-“A night and a day have | done or made in the deep”: {6.,
| have passed or been in the deep.
Jam. 4:13.-“Go to now, ye that say, To-day or to-morrow we shall go
into such a city, and shall do a year there”: i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
continue there a year.

So Latin agere vitam (to live), and agere poenitentiam (to repent)
which Rome, translating literally in all her versions, renders “do
penance.”

3. To go out and come in is used of official actions or of life in
general
Num. 27:16-17.-“... set a man over the congregation, Which may go
out before them, and which may go in before them, and which may
lead them out, and which may bring them in; that the congregation of
the Lord be not as sheep which have no shepherd.”

So verse 21. 2Ch. 1:10. Psa. 121:8. Isa. 37:28. Joh. 10:9. Act.

1:21.
4. To find is used for to receive, to obtain
Gen. 6:8.-“Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord”: i.e., received
grace from the Lord.
Gen. 26:12.-“Then Isaac sowed in that land, and found (i.e., received,

as A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English

Bible, 1611.] , see margin) in the same year an hundredfold: and the

Lord blessed him.”

Luk. 1:30.-“Fear not, Mary: for thou hast found favour with (ie.,

received grace from) God.”

Rom. 4:1.-“What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as

pertaining to the flesh, hath found?” {6., received or obtained.

Heb. 9:12.-“By his own blood he entered in once into the holy place,

having found (i.e., obtained, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,

or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) eternal redemption for us.”
5. To find is also used of to have, or to be present with

1Sa. 13:15.-“And Saul numbered the people that were found (i.e.,

were present) with him, about six hundred men.”

Luk. 9:36.-“And when the voice was past Jesus was found (i.e., was

present) alone.”

Rom. 7:18.-“For | know that in me (that is, in my flesh) there does not

dwell any good thing: for to will is present with me, but how to perform
that which is good | find not (i.e., is not present with me).”
Php. 2:8.-“And being found (i.e., present) in fashion as a man he
humbled himself.”
Php. 3:9.-“And be found (i.e., be present) in him.”
Heb. 11:5.-“By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see
death; and was not found (i.e., present), because God had translated
him.”

6. To call upon the Lord is used of Divine worship
A special act is put for the general act of worship.
Gen. 4:26.-“Then began men to call upon (i.e., to worship) the name
of the Lord”: i.e., Jehovah. See under Metonymy.
Isa. 43:22.-“But thou hast not called upon me ({6., worshipped me), ©
Jacob.”
So the Greek προσκυνέω (proskuneq), to do homage by kissing
the hand, the general word for reverence is put for the special act of
worship.

Joh. 4:23-24.-“The hour is coming and now is, when the true
worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father
seeketh such to worship him. God is a spirit; and they that worship
him must worship him in spirit and in truth.” See also under Hendiadys
below.

7. To Pass the Night is used for abiding
Psa. 49:12.-“Man being in honour, abideth not: he is like the beasts
that perish.”
Isa. 1:21.-“Righteousness lodged in it; but now murderers.”

8. To Place is put for to make

Rom. 4:17.-“I have placed thee (i.e., made thee) a father of many
nations.”
Heb. 1:2.-“Whom he hath placed (i.e., appointed) heir of all things.”
9. To Meet (καταντάω, katantaq) is used of arriving at so as to
touch

Act. 16:1.-“Then came he to (/е., and he arrived at) Derbe and
Lystra,” etc.
Eph. 4:13.-‘Till we shall all have come into ({6., arrived at) the unity of
the faith,” etc.
Php. 3:11.-“If by any means | might attain unto (i.e., arrive at) the out-
rising, that one from among the dead.”* [Note:“ucticlms о αἡ &
Βραιιῶ «i ἓ ἠσῶ. LTTr.WH. and R.V. read с & for αῶ, as rendered
above.] Paul is saying this from his point of view as a Jew, and not
that of a saint. He is speaking of what he formerly counted as his
gains (verse 7), and which he now “counted loss for the knowledge of
Christ ... that | may be found in him ... that | may know him ... if by
any means | might arrive at the out-rising from among the dead.”

This was not spoken as a Christian, as though he might attain
something that other Christians could not attain; but it was spoken as
a Jew, that he might attain (in Christ) a resurrection from among the
dead, which other Jews could not hope for. The Jews looked for a
resurrection, but it was only τῶν νεκρῶν (fqn nekropn), of dead
persons, while Paul was willing to give up this and all his other
supposed “gains” for the blessed hope of an out-rising, ἐκ τῶν νεκρων.
(ek фп nekropn), from among the dead.
1Th. 4:17.-“Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught away
together with them in clouds for a meeting of the Lord, into the air, and
thus, always with the Lord shall we be.”

Here, the meeting involves actual arrival at the meeting-place of
the Lord, and actual presence there with him.

10. To Drink is used of partaking of food and drink of all kinds
1Co. 3:2.-“I gave you milk to drink and not meat”: {6., as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , 1
have fed you. See under Zeugma.

11. To Answer, or Open the Mouth is put for speaking
Job. 3:1.-“After this Job opened his mouth, and cursed his day”: i.e.,
Job said, etc.
Psa. 119:172.-“My tongue shall respond to thy word”: {6., speak of it,
as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.]
And so, very frequently, this Hebrew idiom is used in the New
Testament.
Mat. 11:25.-“At that time Jesus answered ({6., spake), and said: |
thank Thee Father, ... Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy
sight.” Thus our attention is called to what He said; for the answer was
to the circumstances of “that time.” What were they? John had
questioned (verses 2-6). The people had spurned both John and
Himself (16-19). His mighty works had been fruitless (20-24). And,
then, “at that time,” when all seemed to end in failure, the Lord Jesus
found rest in submission and resignation to the Father’s will, and,
then, turning to all His servants-“weary and heavy laden” with their
burden and toil-He graciously invites them to find rest where He had
found it, saying: “Come unto me ... and | will give you rest. Take my
yoke upon you, and learn of me; ... and ye shall find rest.”

Mar. 11:14.-“And Jesus answered and said unto it” (the fig-tree, which
had not spoken), i.e., spake and said.

So Luk. 7:40, etc.

12. To Sit is used of a permanent condition in which one is placed
Isa. 42:7.-“Them that sit in darkness,” quoted in Mat. 4:16.

Act. 18:11.-“And he sat there a year and six months teaching the word
of God among them”: i.e., he continued there, but the verb “sat” is
used in order to be in harmony with his act of teaching. See under
Metonymy.

13. To Sit Down and Rise Up is used for all the ordinary acts of

life which come between them
Psa. 139:2.-“Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising.”
14. To Come, ат (bq), ἔρχεσθαι (erchesthai), is used of going as
well as coming

Jon. 1:3.-“But Jonah ... found a ship coming ({6., going) to Tarshish.”
Mar. 16:2.-“They came (i.e., went) unto the sepulchre.”
Joh. 6:17.-“And (they) entered into a ship, and came ({6., went) over
the sea toward Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus was not
come ({6., gone) to them.
Joh. 11:29.-“As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly, and came
(i.e., went) unto him.”
Act. 28:17.-“And so we came (i.e., went, as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] )
towards Rome.”

Rev. 6:1; Rev. 6:3; Rev. 6:5; Rev. 6:7.-In these verses, the verb “and

see” goes out, according to the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,

1881.] and all the Critical Texts. In this case the verb “come” is used

in the sense of “go,” as a command from the throne to the horsemen,

e.g., “| heard as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four living

creatures, saying, Go! and | saw and behold a white horse ... and he

went forth.” So in each of the other cases.

vi. One example or specimen is put for all kinds of similar things
1. In human actions

Deu. 19:5.-One kind of homicide is mentioned as an example of every

kind.

Psa. 112:5.-“Lending” is put as one kind of favour which a good man

sheweth. The most rare is given as an example of all kinds of merciful

works.

Pro. 20:10.-“Divers ephahs” are put for all kinds of measures.

Pro. 27:14.-“Blessing” a friend with a loud voice, is put for all kinds of

flattery.
Jer. 15:10.-“Lending on usury” is put for all kinds of business
transactions and contracts which are liable to gender strife.

Zec. 5:3.-“Stealing” and “swearing’-two of the commonest kinds of
sin-are put for other kinds.

Mat. 5:22.-“Raca’ is put for all kinds of opprobrious terms, etc.

Mat. 6:1.-“Take heed that ye do not your righteousness.”

The figure here led to an early corruption of the text. One kind of
righteous acts, alms-giving, is put for all kinds. Hence ἐλεημοσύνην
(eléeemosuneen), alms, was put for δικαιοσύνην (dikaiosuneen),
righteousness.
Mat. 6:5.-Ргауег is only one of many things which are not to be done
as the hypocrites do them.
Mat. 6:16.-So with fasting.
Mar. 11:23.-Removing mountains-one kind of impossible thing, is put
for all kinds that are “impossible with men.” So Luk. 17:6. Mat. 17:20 :
in which latter place the word “nothing” shows that removing
mountains is only one of a class of impossibilities. It is not in the
nature of things for a word to pluck up a mountain. See 1Co. 13:2.
Job. 9:5.-“Which removeth mountains, and they know not.” This is
only one kind of things which are possible with God, though
impossible with men (Luk. 18:27).
Heb. 13:9.-“It is a good thing that the heart to be established with
grace, not with meats, which have not profited them that have been
occupied therein.” Here “meats,” one of the things about which people
are occupied, is put for all kinds of divers and strange doctrines which
do not profit those who are occupied with them.

2. In Divine Precepts, etc.
Exo. 20:12.-“Honour thy father and thy mother’: i.e., all who stand in
the place of parents.
Exo. 23:4.-The “ox and ass” are mentioned only as examples, for
surely a horse, or camel, or child, etc., would be included in the
command.
Pro. 25:21. Rom. 12:20.-Surely the two things mentioned are only
examples of many ways in which love may be shown to our enemies.
Luk. 3:11.-One kind of vestment is put for any kind.
1Ti. 6:8.-“Food and raiment” are put by example for this world’s
goods. See 1.)п. 3:17.
Joh. 13:14.-“Washing the feet” is only one kind or one example of
humble service which one may do for another. So 1Sa. 25:41. 1Ti.
5:10.

Ill. Synecdoche of the Whole
Synecdoche of the whole is when the whole is put for a part. This is a
closer connection than that of mere genus or species. It is when the
one is not merely of the same kind as the other, but actually a part or
member of it.
i. The whole is put for every part of it
Num. 16:3.-“Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation
are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them”: i.e., the
whole congregation having been separated to the Lord from the other
nations, each person was also included.
1К!. 6:22.-“The whole house he overlaid with gold”: and therefore
every part of it.
Mat. 3:5.-“Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all (πᾶσα, pasa)
Judzea, and all the region round about Jordan:” the words Jerusalem,
Judaea, and region, being used by Synecdoché of the genus for the
people in them. The word “all” is literal, and means the whole as
including every part. So that “all Judaza” means people from every
part of Judzea. So Mar. 1:5. Act. 1:8.
Mat. 27:45.-“There was darkness over all the land (ἐπὶ πᾶσαν τὴν γῆν,
epi pasan teen geen)”: i.e., the whole Land, as in Mar. 15:33 (ὅλην,
holeen).
Eph. 2:21.-“In whom all the building, fitly framed together, groweth
unto an holy temple in the Lord”: i.e., the whole building; πᾶσα (pasa),
every being put for every part of it.
Eph. 3:15.-“Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named.”
Here, the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] has rendered the
figure literally “every family,” which is not sense, but in the margin has
put “Gr. fatherhood.” “Every” here is used for “the whole,” and means
every part or member of the whole: i.e., the whole family as made up
of every principality, and power, and angel, and archangel “in heaven”
(verse 10), and of Israel and the Church on earth. All are of or from
one Creator and Source (Heb. 2:11). See Ellipsis.
Col. 2:9.-“For in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily”:
lit, every: i.e., every part of, meaning the whole fulness of the
Godhead in bodily form.

2Ti. 3:16.-“All Scripture is given by inspiration of God”: {6., the whole
Scripture; not “every Scripture,” as in the R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] , but every part of Scripture. See under Ellipsis, page
44.

Act. 4:10.-“Be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel”: {6.,
the whole of Israel.

Rom. 4:16.-“To the end the promise might be sure to all the seed”:
ie., the whole seed.

2Th. 1:10.-“When He shall have come (ἔλθῃ, e/thee) to be glorified in
his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe ... in that day”:
i.e., the whole body of believers.

In like manner “every” (i.e., “all”) is used for the whole in Mat.
26:59. Mar. 1:33; Mar. 14:55. Act. 2:47; Act. 7:10; Act. 15:22. Php.
1:13.

ii. The Collective is put for the particular
What is said of the whole, collectively, is sometimes said (by
Synecdoche) only of a part; and not of all the parts, precisely and
singularly.

Gen. 6:12.-“All flesh.” This did not include Noah. See verse 9.

Gen. 35:26.-“These are the sons of Jacob, which were born to him in
Padan-Aram.” This does not include Benjamin. See verses 24 and 16.
Mat. 19:28.-“Ye which have followed me ... when the Son of man shall
sit on the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones,
judging the twelve tribes of Israel.” The “ye” does not include Judas
Iscariot.

Heb. 11:13.-“These all died in faith.” This does not include Enoch (see
verse 5), but only all who died.

1Co. 15:22.-“For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be
made alive.” But all will not die (see verse 51). Those who are “alive
and remain” to the coming of the Lord will not die at all, but be
changed. Therefore it means-that, as, in Adam, all who are in him die,
so in Christ also, all who are in Him shall be made alive. The “all” in
the first clause clearly does not include the all who shall be “alive and
remain,” and cannot therefore include the “all” in the second clause.
iii. The whole is put for one of its parts
Gen. 8:13.-“And Noah removed the covering of the ark,” i.e., not the
whole roof, but the covering of the aperture which was made in it as a
part of it: see 6:16.
Exo. 22:13.-‘If it be torn in pieces, then let him bring it (i.e., one of the
pieces) for witness.”
1Sa. 5:4.-“And when they arose early on the morrow morning, behold,
Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of the
Lord; and the head of Dagon, and both the palms of his hands were
cut off upon the threshold: only Dagon was left to him, i.e., only the
body was left. So the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] puts in italics “only the stump of
Dagon was left.”
Psa. 102:5 (6).-“My bones cleave to my flesh,” i.e., “my skin,” as in
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , see margin.
1Sa. 19:24.-“Naked” for scantily clad. So also Isa. 20:2-3. Mic. 1:8.
Joh. 21:7. Job. 22:6; Job. 24:10. Mat. 25:36; Mat. 25:43. Jam. 2:15.
10ο. 4:11. In all these cases “naked” is put for being scantily clothed,
or poorly clad.
Act. 27:33.-“And continued fasting.” Fasting, the whole, is put for the
part; i.e., from real nourishment, or regular meals.
iv. A place is put for a part of it
1. The World is put for persons in all parts of it
Joh. 3:16.-“God so loved the world”: ᾖθ., people and kindred and
tongues in all parts of the world. Not, as heretofore, only Israel. This
love was confined to Israel, according to Deu. 33:3 : “Yea, he loved
the people”: i.e., Israel (chap. 7:6-8, etc.). But now His love was to go
out beyond Israel to people of all nations of the world, without any
such distinction. It is not the world without exception, but without
distinction.
Joh. 12:19.-“Behold, the world is gone after him”: i.e., multitudes of
people of all sorts. Synecdoche here is preferable to Hyperbole (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).
Rom. 1:8.-“Your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world”: i.e., in
all parts of the world.
1Jn. 2:2.-“Not for ours only, but also for the whole world”: i.e., for all
people; without distinction. See Metonymy of the Subject.

2. “The World” is put for a primary part of it
Isa. 13:11.-“And | will punish the world for their evil”: i.e., Babylon (see
verse 1). So Isa. 14:17.
Luk. 2:1.-“There went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the
world (i.e., the civilised world, or Roman Empire) should be taxed.”

3. All the Earth is put for the greater part of its inhabitants
Gen. 41:57.-“In all lands”: i.e., in many neighbouring countries.
2Sa. 15:23.-“All the country”: i.e., all the country round him.
Isa. 13:5.-“The whole land”: i.e., all the land of Chaldeea.

4. The Earth is put for the land of Judcea
Hos. 1:2.-Rendered “land.” Hos. 4:1. Joe. 1:2, etc.
5. The Land (γῆ) is put for city
Mat. 2:6.-“And thou, Bethlehem, land (i.e., city) of Juda.” Not seeing
the figure, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] interpolates the word “in” in italics.
6. The East is put for Persia, Media, and other countries east of
Jerusalem
Eze. 25:4. 1Ki. 4:30. Isa. 2:6. Mat. 2:1, etc.
7. The South is put for Egypt, with respect to Palestine
Jer. 13:19. Dan. 11:5, etc.
8. The South is put for the Negev, or the hill country of Judea,
with respect to Jerusalem
Gen. 12:9; Gen. 13:1; Gen. 13:3. Eze. 20:46-47.
9. The North is put for Chaldoea and its chief city Babylon,
because all armies from beyond the Euphrates crossed high up
and entered Palestine from the North
Jer. 1:13-15; Jer. 13:20; Jer. 47:2. Zep. 2:13.
10. The North is put for Media and Persia, with respect to
Babylon
Jer. 6:1 (compare 51:11 and 27, 28); 50:3, 41.
11. The Temple is put for certain of the parts comprehended in it
Luk. 2:46. Joh. 18:20.
v. Time is put for a portion of time

énéi (ohlam), for ever, used in various limited significations.

Exo. 21:6.-“And he shall serve him for ever”: i.e., as long as he lives.
So Deu. 15:17, and Philem. 15.

Lev. 25:46.-“They shall be your bondmen for ever”: {6., as long as
they live.

1Sa. 1:22.-“That he (Samuel) may appear before the Lord, and there
abide for ever”: {6., as long as he lives.

1Ch. 15:2.-“For them (the Levites) hath the Lord chosen to carry the
ark of God, and to minister unto him for ever’: i.e., without change.
2Sa. 12:10.-“Now therefore the sword shall never (it, not for ever)
depart from thine house”: i.e., while David or his family lived.
Jer. 5:15.-The Babylonians are called “a nation from eternity”: i.e.,
very ancient (compare Gen. 10:10).
Jer. 17:4.-“Ye have kindled a fire in mine anger, which shall burn for
ever”: {68., until all is consumed.
Jer. 25:9.-“Eternal desolations.” Here it is rendered “perpetual” to
soften it down, as the period is distinctly defined in verse 11 to be
“seventy years.” After which Babylon is to become eternal desolation
(verse 12), until it shall be rebuilt according to many prophecies.
Verses 9 and 12 clearly mean, therefore, that the desolations shall be
complete and continuous during the whole period referred to.
Dan. 2:4; Dan. 6:21 (22), etc.-“O King, live for ever”: i.e., a long time:
as we say, “Long live the king.”

So in Luk. 20:9, “a long (a sufficient) time” (χρόνος, chronos): i.e.,
a year; till the next season.

IV. Synecdoche of the Part

Synecdoche of the Part is when a part is put for the whole. The
connection between the part and the whole is closer also than that
between the species and the genus; inasmuch as the part is actually a
member of the whole, and not merely a species or specimen of it.

In Synecdoche of the Part, one part or member is put for, and
includes, every part or member.
i. An integral part of man (individually) is put for the whole man
1. The Soul (dou, nephesh, and ψυχή, psychee) is put for the
whole person
Gen. 12:5.-“The souls ({6., the persons) that they had gotten in

Haran.”

Gen. 14:21.-“And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the
souls ({6., the persons) and take the goods to thyself.”

Gen. 17:14.-“That soul (i.e., that person) shall be cut off from his
people.”

So Gen. 46:15; Gen. 46:26-27. Exo. 12:19; Exo. 16:16 (marg.
[Note: arg. Margin.] ) Lev. 5:2; Lev. 5:4. Jos. 20:3. Eze. 18:4; Eze.
18:20. Act. 2:41; Act. 2:43; Act. 7:14. Rom. 13:1. 1Pe. 3:20. Luk. 6:9,
“to save a soul”: {6., a man.

In this sense we must take Rev. 6:9; Rev. 20:4 : “the souls of them
that were slain or beheaded”: i.e., the persons. John saw the dead
persons. They could not reign till they were made alive, hence in 20:4,
we read that “they lived.” Moreover, how could “souls” cry “How long?”
or, as such, wear “white robes,” which “were given unto every one of
them” (6:11)?
2. The expression My Soul, His Soul, etc., becomes by Synecdoché
the idiom for me, myself, himself, etc. See under Idiom.

Num. 23:10.-“Let my soul die the death of the righteous”: i.e., let me
die, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] See the margin.
Jdg. 16:30.-“And Samson said, Let my soul (/е., me, as in A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
see margin) die with the Philistines.”
Job. 36:14.-“Their soul dieth (i.e., they die, as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) in
youth.”
Psa. 3:2 (3).-“Many there be which say of my soul (i.e., of me), There
is no help for him in his God.” So Psa. 11:1.
Psa. 16:10.-“Thou wilt not leave my soul (i.e., me) in Hades”: i.e., the
grave.
Psa. 25:13.-“His soul (i.e., he) shall dwell at ease.”
Psa. 35:13.-“I humbled my soul (i.e., myself) with fasting.”
Psa. 103:1.-“Bless the Lord, О my soul”: {6., О myself. So in verses 2,
22, and Psa. 104:1; Psa. 104:35.
Isa. 57:5.-“Is it such a fast that | have chosen? a day for a man to
afflict his soul?” /.e., himself.

Luk. 12:19.-“I will say to my soul”: i.e., myself, etc.

Act. 2:31.-“His soul ({6., He) was not left in Hades (the grave), neither
his flesh did see corruption.”

Rom. 16:4.-“Who have for my soul (A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , life) laid down
their own necks”: {6., who have laid down their own necks for me.
1Pe. 1:9.-“Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your
souls”: i.e., of yourselves.

3. Soul (dou, nephesh) is also used of animals;
and when joined with the word “living” (khayah), means “living
creature,” as translated in Gen. 1:20-21; Gen. 1:24; Gen. 1:30. So
also Rev. 16:3, as well as of man in Gen. 2:7, where it is rendered
“living soul.”

4. The Body is put for the person himself

Just as we say, “a hand” for a workman.
Exo. 21:3.-‘If he (i.e., the Hebrew servant) came in with his body (i.e.,
by himself, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] )”: /е., alone, without a wife, as the rest of
the verse explains it.
Rom. 12:1.-“I beseech you therefore ... that ye present your bodies
(i.e., yourselves) a living sacrifice,” etc.
1Co. 6:15.-“Know ye not that your bodies (i.e., ye) are the members of
Christ?”
Jam. 3:6.-“So is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the
whole body”: i.e., the whole being.

5. The Flesh, an integral part of man, is put for the whole
Gen. 17:13.-“My covenant shall be in your flesh”: i.e., in your body, on
your person.

Psa. 16:9.-“My flesh also shall rest in hope”: i.e., my body will rest in
hope. See Act. 2:26-31.
Pro. 14:30.-“A sound heart is the life of the flesh”: {6., of the body.
2Co. 7:1.-“Let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh ({6.,
of the body) and spirit.”

6. The Flesh is put for the whole person
Gen. 6:12.-“All flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.” Here
“flesh,” being the figure for people, the word “all” is literal: {6., all
people, every person. But even this excepts Noah. See above.
Psa. 56:4 (5).-“I will not fear what flesh (i.e., man) can do unto me.”
See verse 11 (12).

Psa. 65:2 (3)-“O Thou that hearest prayer, unto Thee shall all flesh
come”: i.e., all people.

Psa. 145:21.-“Let all flesh ({6., let all people) bless his holy name for
ever’: /it., “all flesh shall bless,” as in verse 10.

Isa. 40:5.-“The glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh (i.e.,
all people) shall see it together.” See Luk. 3:6.

Isa. 40:6.-“All flesh is grass.” See Metaphor.

Mat. 19:5.-“And they twain shall be one flesh”: {6., one person, not a
soulless body!

Joh. 6:51.-“My flesh”: i.e., myself.

Rom. 3:20.-“By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh (i.e., not a
single person) be justified.” Here, the “flesh” being figurative, the
negative denies literally. So

1Со. 1:29.-“That no flesh (i.e., not a single person) should glory in his
presence.”

1Pe. 1:24.-“All flesh (/.€., every one) is as grass.”
7. Flesh is put for the whole, and true, humanity of Christ
Joh. 1:14.-“The Word was made flesh”: {6., man, a human being.
Joh. 6:51-56.-Here, “flesh” and “blood,” (see below) are jointly as well
as severally put for humanity as distinct from Divinity. There are other
figures in this passage; but the word “flesh” is put, not for the “body” of
Christ, but for Himself in His true humanity.
1Ti. 3:16.-“Manifest in the flesh”: {6., in human beings. The “mystery”
was manifest. The reading 6 (ho), which, corresponds best with the
context, and agrees with the neuter word Мистйрюм, mystery. This
mystery is Christ Mystical (not personal): i.e., Christ the head of the
Body in glory and His members here upon earth. Otherwise the last
three facts at the end of the verse are quite out of order. They
describe the order as to Christ Mystical, but not as to Christ personal.*
[Note: See The Mystery, by the same author and publisher.]
1Pe. 3:18.-“Being put to death as to the flesh (i.e., as to his human
nature), but quickened (i.e., raised from the dead) as to his spirit ({6.,
his resurrection or spiritual body).” There is no article with either word:
only the dative case, describing what happened as to the body. This is
the usage of the words “flesh” and “spirit” in 10ο. 15:1-58t [Note: See
The Spirits in Prison, by the same author and publisher.] See also
chap. 4:1.
Heb. 10:20.-“By a new and living way, which he hath consecrated
(marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] , new made) for us, through the veil, that is
to say, his flesh”: i.e., his human nature, Himself as truly and really
man.
1Jn. 4:2.-“Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the
flesh ({6., in His real human nature) is of God.” Note the three forms
of the verb ἔρχομαι. Here, it is the perfect participle, ἐληλυθότα
(eleeluthota), “being come.” In chap. 5:6, it is the aorist participle, ὁ
ἐλθὼν (ho elthqpn), “this is He that came.” While in 2Jn. 1:7, it is the
present participle, ἐρχόμενον (erchomenon), “who confess not that
Jesus Christ is coming in the flesh”: i.e., in his human nature, the
same Jesus, in like manner as he went into heaven (Act. 1:11).

8. Flesh is put for all living beings
Gen. 6:13.-“The end of all flesh is come before me “: i.e., the end of
every living creature. Here, the “all” is literal, because “flesh” is
figurative.
Gen. 6:17.-“I ... bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all
flesh”: {6., every living thing.
Psa. 136:25.-“Who giveth food to all flesh”: i.e., to every living thing.
9. The Flesh is put for the animal lusts, and the evil desires of the
Old nature: and for the Old nature itself

In Rom. 1:16-32; Rom. 2:1-29; Rom. 3:1-31; Rom. 4:1-25; Rom.
5:1-21; Rom. 6:1-23; Rom. 7:1-25; Rom. 8:1-39, there are many
examples. See
Rom. 8:4.-“Who walk not after the flesh”: i.e., the Old nature. This is
not the same as in verse 3.
Rom. 8:13.-“If ye live after the flesh, ye shall die”: i.e., if ye live and
are ruled by the principles of the Old nature. So in verse 12, and
frequently.

See articles on Romans in Things to Come, 1898 and 1899.
Gal. 5:6.-“Walk in the spirit ({6., in the New nature), and ye shall not
fulfil the lust of the flesh (i.e., of the old man).”
10. Blood is put for man, as we say “poor blood” for “poor
fellow”
Psa. 94:21.-“They gather themselves together against the soul of the
righteous ({6., against the righteous man), and condemn the innocent
blood “: i.e., the innocent man.
Pro. 1:11.-“Let us lay wait for blood”: i.e., for some man whom we may
kill.
Mat. 27:4.-“I have sinned in that | have betrayed the innocent blood”:
ie., the innocent man.
Act. 17:26.-God “hath made of one blood all nations of men for to
dwell on all the face of the earth”: i.e., out of one man God hath made
many different nations. Man is the same all over the world; and,
though there are different nations and races all over the world, they
are all descended from one man.
11. Flesh and Blood is put for the human nature as distinct from
the Divine Nature: or for the body of man as animal, mortal, and
corruptible

Mat. 16:17.-“Blessed art thou Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath
not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.” Here, the
Lord uses Peter’s human name “Simon” and his human parentage,
and “flesh and blood” in order to contrast and emphasize the
distinction between these and the Divine origin of the communication
and revelation. The figure of Synecdoché here puts the emphasis on
man and humanity: “No human being revealed this unto thee.”
1Со. 15:50.-“Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God”: i.e.,
no mortal human being can enter there. Man must be “born again,”
and “born of the Spirit,” and raised from the dead, or “changed” before
he can find entrance into that kingdom. See the rest of the verse, and
compare verses 42-49.
Gal. 1:16.-“l conferred not with flesh and blood”: i.e., with no human
being in contrast with God, Who alone revealed to him the Gospel
which he was to preach.
Eph. 6:12.-“We wrestle not against flesh and blood”: i.e., against
human beings, in contrast with wicked spiritual beings.

See under Metonymy of Adjunct.
Heb. 2:14.-“Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and
blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same”: i.e., He became
flesh, and took part in a true and perfect human body.

12. The Head is put for the man himself

We use the figure when we reckon anything at so much “per head.”
Jdg. 5:30.-“To the head of a man, a damsel, two damsels”: {6., one or
two damsels per head, or for each man.
Here, there is a double Synecdoché, “a womb” being put for “a
damsel.” See below.
2Ki. 2:3.-“Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from
thy head (i.e., from thee) to-day?”
Psa. 3:3 (4).-‘The lifter up of mine head”: ᾖθ., of me: “my head”
meaning the same as “my soul.”
Psa. 7:16 (17).-“His mischief shall return upon his own head”: i.e.,
upon his own self.
Psa. 66:12.-“Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads”: {6., over
us.
Pro. 10:6.-“Blessings are upon the head of the just”: {6., upon the
man himself.
Isa. 35:10.-“With songs, and everlasting joy upon their heads”: {6.,
upon them, themselves.
So “blood” is said to be upon the head of anyone, i.e., where “blood” is
put for the guilt of blood-shedding (Metonymy of the effect) and “head”
is put (by Synecdoché) for the person himself.
2Sa. 1:16.-‘And David said unto him, Thy blood be upon thy head”:
ie., thyself.
So 1Ki. 2:37. Eze. 33:4. Act. 18:6.
Mat. 27:25.-“His blood (i.e., the guilt of his blood-shedding, by
Metonymy of the effect) be on us, and on our children.”

13. The Skull, as a part of the man, is put for the man himself
Exo. 16:16.-“An omer a skull”: i.e., an omer per head, or, as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] , an omer “for every man.” See A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin.

And many other places.

14. The Face is put for the whole man, especially marking and

emphasizing his presence
See under Pleonasm.
Gen. 3:19.-“In the sweat of thy face shall thou eat bread.”

When the face perspires, the person himself perspires: but, as it is
only the face that is seen, it is that which is mentioned, and is thus put
for the whole man.

“Bread,” we have seen, is put by Synecdoché for food in general.
Gen. 19:21.-“See, | have accepted thy face (i.e., thee) concerning this
thing also.” See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] margin.

Gen. 32:20 (21).-“And afterward | will see his face”: i.e., himself.
There are three instances here.

2Sa. 17:11.-Hushai says to Absalom, “I counsel ... that thy face (i.e.,
thou thyself) go to battle.”
There can be but little doubt, as Dr. Ginsburg points out in his

Introduction to the Hebrew Bible (page 169), that the word а-Га
(baccrav) rendered to the battle, is an abbreviation in the MSS. for ᾱ-
rai (b’cheerbam), which means in the midst of them. And so the
Septuagint and the Vulgate translate it. Besides, -fa (ch’rab) is never
used in Samuel for battle. It is always iécia (milchamah). So that the
passage should read: “I counsel ... that thou go in the midst of them in
thine own person.”
1К!. 2:20.-“And the king said unto her, Ask, my mother; for | shall not
turn back thy face”: i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “I will not say thee nay,” with
the emphasis on “thee.”
1К!. 10:24.-“And all the earth sought the face of Solomon”: i.e., his
presence, so as to see him and to speak with him personally.
Job. 11:19.-“Many shall intreat thy face”: i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “will
make suit unto thee.” See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin.
Psa. 42:5 (6).-“I shall yet praise Him for the salvations (Heterosis (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ) of number: i.e., the great salvation) of His
countenance”: i.e., which He (i.e., His presence) shall give me.

So verse 11 (12): “I shall yet praise Him who is the salvations ({6.,
the great salvation) of my countenance (i.e., me myself), and my
God.” So Psa. 43:5.

Psa. 132:10.-“For thy servant David's sake turn not away the face of
thine anointed.”

Here the figure emphasizes the last words, meaning not his face
merely, but David himself.

Pro. 28:21.-Το have respect of faces is not good”: i.e., as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] “persons,” so as to be influenced by personal appearance
rather than by justice and right.

Ecc. 8:1.-“A man’s wisdom maketh his face to shine ({6., the man
himself), and his hardness is changed.” See under Metonymy.

Isa. 3:15.-“What mean ye that ye ... grind the faces of the poor?” So
Isa. 36:9 : “Turn away the face of one captain.”

Lam. 5:12.-“Princes are hanged up by their hand: the faces (i.e.,
persons) of elders were not honoured.”
15. The Eye is put for the man himself, in respect to his vision,
mental or physical
Mat. 13:16.-“Blessed are your eyes ({6., ye), for they (i.e., ye) see.”
So Luk. 10:23.
1Co. 2:9.-“Eye hath not seen”: i.e., no one hath seen.
And many other passages.

16. The Eye lifted up is put for a proud man, and his high looks
Psa. 18:27 (28).-“Thou wilt save the afflicted people: but wilt bring
down high looks (Heb., soaring eyes)”: i.e., proud people.

So Pro. 6:17 (margin).
17. The Mouth is put for the whole man, in respect of his
speaking
Pro. 8:13.-“The froward mouth (i.e., person) do | hate.”
18. The Belly is put for man, in respect of his eating

Rom. 16:18.-“For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ,
but their own belly”: {6., their own selves.
Php. 3:19.-“Whose God is their belly”: {6., themselves, and what they
can get.
Tit. 1:12.-“Slow bellies”: i.e., slow persons, who by reason of large
eating, have grown stout and move slowly.

19. The Womb is put for a female, in respect to her being

marriageable

Jdg. 5:30.-“A womb-two wombs for each man.” The A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
renders the figure here by the word “damsel.”

20. The Heart is put for the whole man, in respect to his

knowledge or affection
Gen. 31:20.-“And Jacob stole away the heart of Laban”: i.e., Jacob

baffled Laban’s knowledge by hiding his intentions. So in verse 26,

where the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our

English Bible, 1611.] renders it “unawares,” but see the margin on

verse 26; and in verse 27, “secretly.”

2Sa. 15:6.-“So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel”: i.e.,

gained them through getting their affection.

Luk. 21:34.-“Take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts

(i.e., ye) be overcharged with surfeiting,” etc.

21. The Feet are put for the whole man, in respect to carefulness,
quickness, etc.

Pro. 1:16.-“Their feet (i.e., they) run to evil.”

Pro. 6:18.-“Feet (i.e., persons) that be swift in running to mischief.” So

Isa. 59:7.

Isa. 52:7.-“How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that

bringeth good tidings”: i.e., how beautiful or pleasant is the coming of

him who brings good news. So Rom. 10:15.

Rom. 3:15.-Their feet (i.e., they) are swift to shed blood.”
ii. An integral part of men (collectively) is put for the whole, or
others associated with them
Exo. 12:40.-One person is mentioned; but with him are
comprehended his father Isaac, and his grandfather Abraham.

“Now the sojourning of the children of Israel, who dwelt in Egypt,
was four hundred and thirty years.”

Note that it does not say that Israel’s descendants dwelt in Egypt
430 years, as the commentators assume, but that their “sojourning”
lasted that time; reckoning from Abraham (who is included by
Synecdoché, as is Isaac also).

Four hundred and thirty years was the whole duration of the
sojourning; as is stated also in Gal. 3:16-17. While the 400 years’
sojourning is dated from Abraham’s “seed” (Isaac), who was born
thirty years later. See Gen. 15:18 and Act. 7:6. There are two
reckonings, starting from two different points, and both ending at the
Exodus.

Exo. 17:8; Exo. 17:13.-Amalek (in verse 8) is put for him and his
whole army. So Jos. 10:28; Jos. 10:40. 1Sa. 18:7, etc.
Deu. 33:7.-Only “Judah” is named in the blessing, but in company with
him Simeon is understood. For their inheritance and blessing was one.
Jos. 19:1 and Jdg. 1:3.

“And this for Judah,” etc.
1Ki. 8:66.-“David” is named, but Solomon, his son, is understood
together with him; see 2Ch. 7:10, where it is expressly added; and
1Ki. 10:9.
1К!. 10:11.-“The navy of Hiram” is named, but Solomon is included;
see 9:26, 27.
1К!. 11:32.-“One tribe” is mentioned; but, by Synecdoché, Simeon and
Benjamin are included, as well as the Levites and others who joined
the tribe. See 2Ch. 15:9. 1Ki. 12:23. 2Ch. 11:13. All these are
included, by Synecdoché, in 1Ki. 12:20.
2Ki. 17:18.-The Levites and Benjamites, etc., are included.
Job. 32:4.-Job is named, but the others are included.
Isa. 7:2; Isa. 7:5; Isa. 7:8-9; Isa. 9:9.-“Ephraim” is named, because in
that tribe was Samaria, the royal city; and because out of that tribe
was Jeroboam, the first king of Israel. But by Synecdoché all the ten
tribes are included.
Psa. 80:2.-“Ephraim”™* [Note: One of the ancient readings called

Severin has this: “For the sons of Ephraim,” etc.] includes the ten

tribes, while “Benjamin” includes Judah; and “Manasseh’” includes the

two-and-a-half tribes.

Psa. 80:1 (2).-“Joseph” (whose son Ephraim was) is put for all Israel.

Amo. 5:15; Amo. 6:6.-“Joseph’” is put for the ten tribes or the kingdom

of Israel.

Jer. 6:1.-“Benjamin” is put for all Judah, on account of their close

connection with the Gibeathites (see Jdg. 19:16. Hos. 9:9; Hos. 10:9).
iii. A part of a thing is put for the whole of the thing
1. A Field (uaa, sadeh) is put for a country or region
Gen. 14:7.-“And they smote the whole field (i.e., country) of the
Amalakites.”
1Sa. 27:7.-“David dwelt in the field (i.e., country) of the Philistines.”
2. Corner is put for tower, which was usually placed at the corner
Zep. 1:16.-“A day of trump and alarm against the fenced cities, and
against the high corners”: i.e., towers (with A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ). The word is so
translated in margin of chap. 3:6.
3. The Baptism of John is put for his ministry
Not everywhere, but in a few passages.
Act. 1:22.-“Beginning from the baptism (i.e., the ministry) of John,
unto that same day that he (Christ) was taken up from us.”
So Act. 10:37.
4. Stones is put for the restored buildings
Psa. 102:14 (15).-“Thy servants take pleasure in her stones.”
5. Wall is put for the whole city encompassed by it
Amo. 1:7.-“| will send a fire on the wall of Gaza (i.e., | will burn the city
of Gaza with fire, as the rest of the verse declares), which shall devour
the palaces thereof.” Amo. 1:10; Amo. 1:14; compare verse 12; and
2:2, 5, etc.
6. In like manner Gate is put for the whole city

Gen. 22:17.-“Thy seed shall possess the gate ({6., the cities) of his
enemies.”

The phrase “within thy gates” means within thy cities. See Exo.
20:10. Deu. 12:12; Deu. 14:27; Deu. 16:5.
Psa. 87:2.-“The Lord loveth the gates (i.e., the city) of Zion more than
all the dwellings of Jacob.”
Jer. 15:7.-“And | will fan them with a fan in the gates (i.e., cities) of the
land.”
7. Gate is also put for the inhabitants of the city, or for the people
who assemble at its gates

This may also be considered as Metonymy of the Subject.
В. 3:11.-“All the gate ({6., the people assembling there) of my
People doth know that thou art a virtuous woman.”
Rth. 4:10.-“That the name of the dead be not cut off ... from the gate
of his place”: {6., from his own city and People.

The two are combined in Isa. 14:31 : “Howl, O gate; cry, O city.” In
neither case could the gate or the city cry or howl.

Two classes of people are addressed: first “gate” (a part of the
whole) is put, by Synecdoché, for those who assemble there; and then
“city” is put, by Metonymy of the Subject, for all the inhabitants of the
city.

8. The Death of Christ is put for the atonement and its results
(and see under Metalepsis)
Rom. 5:10.-“We were reconciled to God by the death of his Son”: i.e.,
not by the act or article of death only, but by the atonement of which it
formed only a part.

So 1Co. 11:26. Col. 1:22.

Heb. 2:14.-“That through death he might destroy him that had the
power of death.”

Here, the first time the word “death” is used, it is put for the
atonement associated with it; and the second time it means literally
the article of death. See under Antanaciasis.

9. The Knob of the Roll is put for the MS. or book itself
Heb. 10:7.-“In the volume of the book it is written of me.”

Here ἐν κεφαλίδι βιβλίου (en kephalidi bibliou), in the head of the
book (κεφαλίς, kephalis, head), is not a synonym for roll, as some try
to show; but it is the head or knob of the cylinder on which the
manuscript was rolled, and which is put, by Synecdoché, for the roll
and volume itself. It thus corresponds with the Hebrew in Psa. 40:7
(8): аТ6 ПОГ (Bimegillath sepher), in the scroll of the book, and
is not a paraphrase, but gives the correct sense.
In Heb. 10:7 this book may be taken as referring to Psa. 40:7 (8); but
what about Psa. 40:7 (8), where the same phrase occurs? What is the
book referred to there? Surely it must be the book of the eternal
covenant referred to in Psa. 139:16.
iv. A part of time is put for the whole time
1. A Year is put for time, definite and indefinite
Isa. 61:2.-“To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord”: i.e., the time
of Christ’s coming.
Isa. 63:4.-“The year of my redeemed is come.”
Jer. 11:23.-"I will bring evil upon the men of Anathoth, even the year of
their visitation.”
2. In the Day is put for an indefinite time
Gen. 2:4.-“When they were created,
“In the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens.”
Here “in the day” in the second line answers to “when’” in the first
line.
Gen. 2:17.-“In the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.”
46] (ϱγφπη), in the day.

A noun with the preposition followed by the verb in the infinitive, as
here, becomes an adverb of time, and means simply when, or after
then, or after that.

Lev. 13:14.-“In the day that raw flesh appear”: in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
“when,” and in Π.Ν [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ,
“whensoever.”

Lev. 14:57.-“To teach in the day of the unclean, and in the day of the
clean.”

Both A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
renders this: “To teach when it is unclean and when it is clean” (see
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] margin).

Deu. 21:16.-“In the day that (/.e., when) he maketh his sons to inherit
that which he hath.”
2Sa. 21:12.-“In the day that (i.e., when) the Philistines had slain Saul
in Gilboa.”
1Ki. 2:37.-“It shall be that, on the day thou goest out, and passest
over the brook Kidron, thou shalt know for certain that thou shalt
surely die.”

Then, after Shimei had gone out, and been to Gath to seek his
servants, who had run away, and had come back again, “it was told
Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath, and was
come again” (verse 41). The king sent for Shimei; and said: “Did | not
make thee to swear by the Lord, and protested unto thee, saying,
Know for a certain, on the day thou goest out, and walkest abroad any
whither, that thou shalt surely die?”

After all this, Solomon proceeded to make Shimei “know for certain
that he should surely die.”

In this case Shimei had been not merely outside his house, but far
away to Gath, one of the royal cities of the Philistines; and had not
only consumed some time on his journeys out and home, but, after he
got there, he had to seek his lost servants out and find them.
Therefore “on the day” could neither be intended nor taken in its literal
meaning; but, by Synecdoché, for any indefinite yet certain time. It
was so taken by Solomon here: and it is perfectly certain that it is to be
so understood in Gen. 3:1-24 for in verse 19 the Lord distinctly says:
“In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the
ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou art, and unto dust
shalt thou return.”

Not “in the day” that Adam ate of the forbidden fruit; for the Lord
contemplates him as living on, and he did live for nine hundred and
thirty years (Gen. 5:5). The interest of the passage in 1Ki. 2:1-46 is
that the words are used in exactly the same connection, and with the
corresponding figure, Polyptoton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), “dying thou
wilt die,” TU 1]: (meth tamuth).
Those who see and understand the figure Synecdoché, here
employed, need not trouble themselves to invent some new and
strange and unscriptural theories as to death; or resort to strained
interpretations in order to explain a self-created difficulty.
2Ki. 20:1.-“In those days (i.e., the days of Sennacherib’s invasion)
Hezekiah was sick unto death, and the prophet Isaiah came unto him.”
Psa. 18:18 (19).-“They prevented me in the day of my calamity”: i.e.,
when | was in trouble.

Isa. 11:16.-“Like as it was to Israel in the day that he came up out of
the land of Egypt”: i.e., not the actual day (for it was dark), but at the
time or on the occasion when he came up, etc.

Jer. 11:3-4.-“Cursed be the man that obeyeth not the words of this
covenant, which | commanded your fathers in the day that | brought
them forth out of the land of Egypt.”

And in verse 7: “I earnestly protested unto your fathers in the day
that | brought them up out of the land of Egypt.”

Now the commands and protest referred to are written in Deu.
27:1-26, and were given some forty years after the Exodus. It is clear
from this that ЭЁЙ (θεγφπὴ) is not to be taken literally, and that “in the
day” is put by Synecdoché for the whole time covered by the events
referred to. See Jer. 31:32; Jer. 34:13. Eze. 20:5-6.

Eze. 36:33.-“Then saith Adonai Jehovah: In the day that | shall have
cleansed you from all your iniquities, | shall also cause you to dwell in
the cities, and the wastes will be builded.”

It is clear that all this building will not be done in a day, but it will all
be done when the time comes for the Lord’s word to be fulfilled.

Eze. 38:18.-“And it shall come to pass in the day of Gog’s coming
against the land of Israel,” etc.

Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] renders а©Й (Буфт)‚ at the same time; and
the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , in that day.

And more generally days are used for time.
Psa. 102:11 (12).-“My days are like a shadow that declineth”: i.e., my
life.
Psa. 103:15.-“As for man, his days are as grass”: i.e., he himself, or
his life.
Isa. 4:1.-“And in that day (i.e., at that time) seven women shall take
hold of one man,” etc.
Isa. 9:4 (3).-“Thou hast broken the yoke of his burden ... as in the day
of Midian”: i.e., at the time when Midian was broken.
Hos. 9:9.-“As in the days of Gibeah”: i.e., at the time when the sons of
Belial sinned at Gibeah (Jdg. 19:22-25).
Mat. 2:1.-“In the days (i.e., in the reign) of Herod the king.”
Act. 5:36.-“For before these days”: {6., before this time.

The plural days is put for a full year.
Gen. 24:55.-“Let the damsel abide with us days at the least ten; after
that she shall go.” This is, according to the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin, “a full
year or at least ten months.”
Gen. 40:4.-“And they continued days (i.e., a year) in ward.”
Exo. 13:10.-“Thou wilt therefore keep this ordinance at its appointed
season: from days to days”: .e., from year to year.
Lev. 25:29.-“If a man sell a dwelling house in a walled city, then he
may redeem it within a whole year after it is sold; within days (i.e., a
full year) may he redeem it.” Or as in R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] , “for a full year shall he have the right of redemption.”
Jdg. 11:40.-“The daughters of Israel went from days to days (i.e.,
“yearly,” as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] ) to talk with the daughter of Jephthah the
Gileadite four days in the year.” The verb uda (tahnah) occurs only
twice: here and in chap. 5:11. It means to rehearse, to talk with or of.
Jdg. 17:10.-“I shall give thee ten shekels of silver for the days”: i.e., by
the year, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.]
1Sa. 1:3.-“And this man (Elkanah) went up out of his city from days to
days (i.e., from year to year, A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin and R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ; or, yearly, A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ) to worship and to
sacrifice.”

In verse 7, the Hebrew word “year” is used literally.
1Sa. 27:7.-“And the time that David dwelt in the country of the
Philistines was days and four months”: /е., a full year and four
months.
1Ki. 17:7.-“And it came to pass at the end of days that the brook dried
up, because there had been no rain in the land.” The A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , “after a while” is not far out.
It may mean a full year; but it evidently must include a whole season
during which rain might have been expected.
In chap. 18:1, “many days” include the whole three years.
Amo. 4:4.-“Bring ... your tithes after three of days”: i.e., in the third
year (according to the Law, Deu. 14:28).

3. The Sabbath is sometimes put for the full week
Mat. 28:1.-“In the end of the sabbaths”: i.e., at the close of the week.
Luk. 18:12.-“I fast twice in the sabbath”: i.e., in the week.
1Со. 16:1.-“On the first of the sabbath”: {6., on the first day of the
week.
4. The Morning is put for a more lengthened period or continuous

time

Job. 7:17-18.-“What is man ... that thou shouldest visit him every
morning?” i.e., continually.
Psa. 73:14.-“All the day long have | been plagued and chastened

every morning”: i.e., continually.

Psa. 101:8.-“At morn | will destroy the wicked of the land.” Not “early,”

as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English

Bible, 1611.] ; nor, “morning by morning,” as in R.V. [Note: The

Revised Version, 1881.] , as though in millennial days each morning

would commence with, and each day begin with, executions! It means

more than that. It means continually; so that all through the millennium

all workers of iniquity will be continually cut off.

Ecc. 11:6.-“In the morning sow thy seed”: {6., early and continuously.

Isa. 33:2.-“Be thou their arm every morning”: i.e., continually.

Lam. 3:23.-The Lord’s mercies and compassions are “new every

morning”: i.e., always and continually new.

5. Evening and Morning are put for the full day; or, the whole of a
day and night

Gen. 1:5; Gen. 1:8; Gen. 1:13; Gen. 1:19; Gen. 1:23; Gen. 1:31.
6. Hour is put for a special time or season
Joh. 4:23.-“The hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers
shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth.” See this passage and
verse 24, under Hendiadys below.
Joh. 5:25.-“The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear
the voice of the Son of God; and they that hear shall live.” Note that in
this almighty act Christ’s title is “Son of God”; while, in verse 27, He
executes judgment in the earth because He is the “Son of man.” So
Joh. 5:28; Joh. 16:2 (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “Нте”); 17:1. 1Th. 2:17 (A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
“time”). Philem. 15 (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] ‚ “season”). 1Jn. 2:18, twice (A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
“time”).

7. In Chronology a part of a time or period is sometimes put for

the whole of such period

1Ki. 2:11.-“Seven years” is put for seven years and a half. Compare
2598. 2:11.
2Ki. 24:8.-“Three months” is put for three months and ten days.
Compare 2Ch. 36:9.
Hendiadys; or, Two for One

Two words used, but one thing meant
Hen-dor-a-dy"s, from ἕν (hen), one, διὰ (dia), by, δίς (dis) two (from
δύο, two). Lit, one by means of two. Two words employed, but only
one thing, or idea, intended. One of the two words expresses the
thing, and the other (of synonymous, or even different, signification,
not a second thing or idea) intensifies it by being changed (if a noun)
into an adjective of the superlative degree, which is, by this means,
made especially emphatic.

The figure is truly oriental, and exceedingly picturesque. It is found
in Latin as well as in Hebrew and Greek, and is very frequently used in
both Old and New Testaments.

The two words are of the same parts of speech: i.e., two nouns (or
two verbs) always joined together by the conjunction “and.” The two
nouns are always in the same case.

An example or two from the Latin will serve to explain the true
nature of this figure, which is one of the most important in the Bible.
Tacitus (Ann. i. 49. 5) says, “ultio et satietas,” ΙΗ., a revenge and a
sufficiency. Here we have not two things, but only one, though there
are two words. The latter noun becomes a very strong adjective,
which may be well and excellently expressed by our English idiom: “a
revenge, yes-and a sufficient revenge too”: i.e., a sufficient revenge,
with strong emphasis on the word “sufficient,” from its being thus
changed from a noun to an adjective of superlative degree. Had the
mere adjective been used, the emphasis would then have been on
“revenge,” thus naturally qualified.

Tacitus, again (Ann. i. 61), speaks of one who was slain, “infelici
dextera et suo ictu,” by his hapless right hand, and his own blow: {6.,
“by his hapless right hand, yes-a blow dealt by his own hand too.”

Tacitus (Ann. ii. 82. end): “tempore et spatio,” time and space.
Here we have not two things, but one: i.e., “time, yes-and a long-
extended time too.”

Tacitus (Ann. iii. 65. 1): “posteritate et infamia,” posterity and
infamy: i.e., “posterity, yes-and an infamous posterity too.”

Virgil (Aen. vii. 15): “gemitus iraeque,” roars and angers: i.e.,
“roars, yes-and angry roars too.”
Virgil (Aen. vii. 772): “medicinae et artis,” medicine and art, or
healing and skill: i.e., “healing, yes-and skilful healing too,” or skill (and
great skill too) in healing.

Horace (Od. i. 35. 33): “cicatricum et sceleris ... fratrumque,” scars
and crime and brothers: i.e., “scars and crime (i.e., criminal scars),
yes-and criminal scars inflicted by brethren too.” This is a case of
Hendiatris (see below).
Ceesar (b. ο. iv. 18): “vi et armis,” by force and arms: i.e., “by force,
yes-and armed force too.”

Many more examples could be given of this figure which is so
commonly used in Latin.

The Greek Classics also abound in examples:

Sophocles (Ajax 145): βοτὰ καὶ λείαν (bota kai leian), cattle and
plunder: i.e., “cattle, yes-and plundered cattle too.”

Hendiadys always raises the qualifying word to the superlative
degree.

But we are not to suppose that whenever we find two words joined
together by the word “and” we have the figure of Hendiadys. It may be
Epitheton.

It does not follow that in every case where two nouns are thus
joined we have only one idea. In the first place, there must be
something to attract our attention, something out of the ordinary
usage, and sometimes not strictly according to the /etter.

And occasionally, even in an undoubted Hendiadys, the two words
may be equally true when taken separately and severally, as when
joined together in one. In these cases both letter and figure arecorrect,
and the passage gains considerable additional light and force.

Another point to be remembered is that the two words must have a
certain relation to each other: one must indicate a property of the
other, or be associated in some way with it.

There cannot be a Hendiadys where the two words are opposed in
any way in their signification; nor even when there is no real
connection between them.

For example: Php. 1:25, “I know that | shall abide and continue
with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith.” Here, in each case,
there are two distinct ideas: the abiding in life, and continuing with the
Philippian saints; also, their “furtherance” was one thing, and their
“joy” another.

On the other hand, verse 11 may be taken in both ways: “Being
filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto
the glory and praise of God.” This may be two things: either, to the
glory of God, and the praise of God; or it may be only one: “Unto the
praise, yes-the glorious praise, of God.”

So Rom. 15:4 : “Whatsoever things were written aforetime were
written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the
Scriptures might have hope.”

Here there are two things, not one, because comforting is not a
proper qualification of patience.

In reading this verse, therefore, a pause must be made after the
word “patience” (which we possess), so as to distinguish it from the
“comfort” (which the Scriptures give).

In most cases, the context and the analogy of Scripture will decide
the doubt.

Some of the examples we present more by way of suggestion than
actual illustration. About most of them there can be no doubt: but a
few (such as Gen. 2:9) may be open to question; and these are
submitted for the judgment and consideration of the reader.

1. Nouns
Gen. 1:26.-“Let us make man in our image, after our likeness”: i.e., in
the likeness of our image.* [Note: “Image” is 6éi (tzelem), 71®
(θἰκῴη), 10ο. 11:7; Col. 3:10. “Likeness” is aild (d’mbith), ὅσα ὅιο
(homoicbsis), Jam. 3:9.] Not two things but one, though two words are
employed.

Gen. 2:9.-“The tree of knowledge of good and evil’: /е., of evil
enjoyment.

Gen. 3:16.-“Multiplying | will multiply (/.e., “I will greatly multiply,” see
Polyptoton) thy sorrow and thy conception”: i.e., thy sorrow, yes-and
thy conceiving sorrow too: [for] “in sorrow thou shalt bring forth
children.”
Gen. 4:4.-“And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and
of the fat thereof”: i.e., he brought the firstlings of his flock, yes-and
the fattest ones too, or the fattest firstlings of his flock, with the
emphasis on “fattest.”

Gen. 19:24.-“Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah
brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven”: {6., brimstone, yes-
and burning brimstone too; or, simply “burning brimstone” with
emphasis on “burning.”

1Sa. 17:40.-“And put them in his shepherd’s vessel and in his
leather bag”: i.e., in his shepherd’s leather bag. This is the “scrip” of
Mat. 10:10. Mar. 6:8. Luk. 22:35-36.

1Sa. 28:3.-They “buried him in Ramah and his own city”: ie., in
Ramah, yes-even in his own city; or, in his own city, Ramah.

2Sa. 20:19.-“Thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel”:
ie., a city, yes-and a mother city too; * [Note: In the same way
“villages” are called daughters (Num. 21:25; Num. 21:32; Num. 32:42.
Jos. 17:11. Jdg. 11:26.] or, a metropolitan city. Neither the A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
nor R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] sees the figure here; but
both translate the words literally, though the figure is obvious.
1Ki. 20:33.-“Now the men divined and hasted”: i.e., divined, yes-and
quickly too; or, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “diligently observed,” with the
emphasis on the word diligently. See Ginsburg’s Introduction, page
438.

1Ch. 22:5.-“Of fame and of glory’; i.e., of glorious fame.

2Ch. 2:9.-“The house which | am about to build, shall be great and
wonderful.” (Heb., see margin).

Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] sees the figure, and translates it accordingly:
“shall be wonderful great.” The exact sense, however, is “shall be
great, yes-and wonderfully great too.”
2Ch. 16:14.-“Sweet odours and divers kinds”: i.e., sweet odours, yes-
and of all manner of kinds.

Job. 10:17.-“Changes and war are against me”: i.e., changes, yes-
and warlike ones too-are against me: i.e., successive changes of
attack. Or it may be read: “changes, aye-a host of them.”

Job. 10:21.-“Before | go whence | shall not return, even to the land of
darkness and the shadow of death”: {6., the land of darkness, yes-
and the darkness of death’s shadow too. Compare Psa. 23:4; and see
under Periphrasis.

Psa. 74:16.-“Thou hast prepared the light and the sun”: i.e., sunlight.

Psa. 96:7.-“Give unto the Lord glory and strength”: {6., glory, yes-
and great glory too. See under Metonymy.

Psa. 116:1.-“I love the Lord, because he hath heard my voice and my
supplications”: i.e., my supplicating voice, with emphasis on
“supplicating.”

Psa. 119:138.-“Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are
righteous and very faithful.” So the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] correctly according to the
figure. But, literally, this verse reads: “Thou hast commanded the
righteousness of thy testimonies and faithfulness exceeding” (see
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] margin): i.e., thy testimonies, yes-thy exceeding faithful
testimonies.

Isa. 1:13.-“l am not able [fo endure] your iniquity and assembly”: i.e.,
your iniquity, yes-your iniquitous assemblies, or your festal iniquity.
See R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , and margin, and
also A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] ‚ for the confusion and obscurity through failing to see the
combined figures of Ellipsis and Hendiadys in this sentence.

Jer. 22:3.-“Execute ye judgment and righteousness’: {6., execute
ye judgment, yea-and righteous judgment too.

Jer. 22:15.-“And do judgment and justice”: i.e., execute judgment,
yes-and righteous judgment too.

Jer. 29:11.-“I know the thoughts that | think toward you, saith the Lord,
thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an end and
expectation.”

Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] gives this in the margin, and translates it “to give
you an expected end.” The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

renders it “o give you hope in your latter end,” and puts in the margin
“Heb., a latter end and hope.”

All this is a recognition of the difficulty, without grasping or catching
the spirit of the figure: “to give you the end, yes-the end you hope for”:
i.e., the end which | have promised and on which | have caused you to
hope and depend. All this, and more, is contained in and expressed by
the figure Hendiadys.

Jer. 36:27.-“Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah after that the
king had burned the roll and the words which Baruch wrote”: i.e., the
roll, yes-and the roll that contained the words of Jehovah too.

Dan. 8:10.-“It cast down some of the host and of the stars”: {6., of
the starry host. Only one thing, not two.

Zep. 1:16.-“A day of trumpet and alarm”: i.e., of the trumpet, yes-and
an alarming trumpet too.

Mat. 3:11.-“He shall baptize with the Holy Ghost and with fire.”

First observe that there are no articles. It is ἐν mMveUpaT! ἁγίῳ καὶ
Tupi (en pneumati hagiqb kai puri), with Holy Spirit and fire: i.e., with
Holy Spirit, yes-and burning purifying spirit too. Not two things, but one
thing: Judgment!

The contrast is with John’s baptism, which was with water which
mingled together the chaff and the wheat (as the water sign has done
in all ages). But the new baptism of Christ should not be like that. It
would separate the chaff from the wheat by burning it up, as the
Baptist goes on to declare, without a break in his words: “whose fan is
in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat
into his garner: but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.”
The “fire” in verse 11 is different from the “fire” in verse 12. In verse 11
it is a figure for purifying and cleansing; and in verse 12 it is a literal
fire that is meant. But the effect of its operations are the same in each
case.

The Baptist is speaking, not of the Church, but of Christ and His
kingdom, as was prophesied in Isa. 4:3-4 : “And it shall come to pass
that he that is left in Zion, and he that remaineth in Jerusalem, shall be
called holy, even every one that is written among the living in
Jerusalem: when the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the
daughters of Zion, and shall have purged the blood of Jerusalem from
the midst thereof by the spirit of judgment and by the spirit of
burning’: i.e., by spirit of judgment-His consuming.

This is the purging of the floor, and the burning up of the chaff,
which the Baptist speaks of in verse 12. John only foretold it; but
Christ shall do it in the day referred to in Isa. 4:1-6
“The Spirit” is the Worker, and “the fire” denotes His operations,
searching, consuming, and purifying. The day of the Lord’s coming will
be “like a refiner’s fire ... And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of
silver: and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and. purge them as gold
and silver” (Mal. 3:1-4). That day “shall burn as an oven; and all the
proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble (as in Mat. 3:12):
and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts.”
Mal. 4:1 (3:19).

That future judgment is referred to, and not any ecclesiastical
ordinance, is clear from verse 10.

When the future baptism of the members of Christ’s mystical body
with the Holy Spirit is spoken of there is no mention of or reference to
fire.

Christ “fans” to get rid of the chaff. Satan “sifts” to get rid of the
wheat (Luk. 22:31).

Mat. 4:16.-“In a region and shadow of death.” This does not denote
two places, but one: in a region, yes-in death’s dark region too, as is
clear from Isa. 9:1-2 (8:23-9:1).

Mat. 24:30.-“They shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of
heaven with power and great glory”: i.e., with power, yes-with great
and glorious power.
Mat. 24:31.-“And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a
trumpet.” In the margin we learn that the Greek is “with a trumpet and
a great voice.” Here, it is clear that we have not two things but one: “a
trumpet, yes-and a great sounding trumpet too.”
Both the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our

English Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

recognize the Figure Hendiadys here. But the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] gives
the literal Greek (according to one reading) in the margin; while the
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] gives as an alternative
rendering, “Or, a trumpet of great sound’; which represents the
change of the second noun into an adjective in a different way.

Luk. 1:17.-“He shall go before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah”:
ie., in spirit, yes-in Elijah’s powerful spirit too.

Luk. 21:15.-“For | will give you a mouth and wisdom’: i.e., a mouth
(Metonymy, for speech), yes-and a wise mouth too; such wisdom of
speech that “all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor
resist.”
Joh. 1:17.-“The law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came
by Jesus Christ.” This must be the figure Hendiadys, because
otherwise the words taken literally would not be true to fact.

Was there no “grace” in the Law? How came only Israel to have it
and not the Babylonians, Egyptians, Philistines, Assyrians, etc.? Yes;
it was all grace: as God asks and tells them so earnestly and so often;
in Deu. 4:32-40, and other places.

And was there no “truth” in the Law? Yes; surely, every word was
truth.

But, in Joh. 1:17, the contrast is between one thing that was given
by Moses, and another and a different thing that came by Jesus
Christ.

The figure Hendiadys explains the difficulty and sheds light on the
verse.

The Law was given by Moses, and there was grace in it; and
moreover it was truth itself: “but grace, yes-and true grace too (the
real thing) came by Jesus Christ.

Joh. 3:5.-This is literally, “Except a man shall have been begotten of
water and spirit.” There is no article to either of the two nouns.

That only one thing is meant by the two words is clear from verses
6 and 8, where only the Spirit (the one) is mentioned.
The Lord is speaking to Nicodemus of “earthly things” (see verse
12). And as “a master in Israel,” he knew (or ought to have known)
perfectly well the prophecy of Eze. 36:25-27 concerning the kingdom
(not the Church). Concerning Israel, in the day of their restoration to
their own land, Jehovah had declared: “Then will | sprinkle clean water
upon you, and ye shall be clean ... And | will put my spirit within you,”
etc.

The cleansing of that day is not to be with literal water, as in the
ceremonial cleansings of the Law, but with the Spirit of God.

Hence only one thing is meant:-“Except a man be begotten of
water, yes-and spiritual water too, he cannot enter into the kingdom of
God.” That spiritual water stands, by another figure (Metonymy), for
the Holy Spirit Himself: as is clear from Joh. 7:38-39 : “water-(But this
spake He of the Spirit, which they that believe on Him should receive

Hence there is no reference here to ceremonial or ecclesiastical
water-but to that baptism of the Spirit which is the one indispensable
condition of entering into the kingdom of God; a moral sphere, which
includes and embraces the Church of God, here and now, as well as
the future kingdom foretold by God through the prophets.
Joh. 4:21-24.-The one subject of these verses is-What is true
worship? its nature and its character. It was the sixth word of the Lord
Jesus to the woman of Samaria: “Woman, believe me, the hour
cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem,
worship the Father. Ye (Samaritans) worship ye know not what: we
(Jews) know what we worship: for salvation is of (i.e., proceeds from)
the Jews. But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers
shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh
such to worship Him. God is a spirit (i.e., a Spiritual Being): and they
that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth.”

Here, notice first that there is only one preposition (év, en), “in,” for
the two nouns. It is not to be repeated as in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] It is “in
spirit and truth.” Moreover, one of the usages of this preposition with
the noun turns it into an adverb: so that “in spirit” means “spiritually”:
i.e., in accordance with another of its meanings, with the spirit, or with
our spirits. Then, the figure Hendiadys comes in to strengthen this.
“God is a Spirit! and they that worship Him must worship Him
spiritually, yes-in a truly spiritual manner too.”
Observe, further, that the Lord says, “MUST”! There is nothing left
to our choice or taste in the matter. This “great rubrick” overrides all
others: so that it is of no use for anyone to say: “I like this form of
service,” or “I prefer that kind of service.” It says, “MUST”! God is a
Spirit, and therefore He cannot be worshipped by the flesh: i.e., by
means of any of our senses, which are essentially of the flesh. We
cannot worship God with our eyes, by looking at decorations, however
beautiful; we cannot worship Him with our ears, by listening to music,
however ravishing; we cannot worship Him with our noses, by the
smelling of incense, however sweet; no! not by any separately or by
all of them together can we worship a Spiritual Being. All such things
are, really, only hindrances; which are destructive of all true spiritual
worship. We, who cannot pray or listen to a prayer without wandering
thoughts, need no such temptations to attract or distract our spirits
from doing that which God can alone accept. It is a positive cruelty to
professing worshippers to present anything to their senses. It is a
device of the devil to destroy spiritual worship, and to render
obedience to this great rubric impossible. Hence this impressive figure
used here, in conjunction with the word “MUST.” It is the same word
as in chap. 3:7: “Ye MUST be born again”; and chap. 3:14: “The Son
of man MUST be lifted up.” So here, in the next chap., 4:24: “They that
worship God, who is a spirit, MUST worship Him with the spirit, yes-
really and truly with the spirit.” See further under Hyperbaton; which is
used in this verse in order to enchance and enforce this interpretation
of these words.

Act. 1:25.-“That he may take part of this ministry and apostleship,
from which Judas by trangression fell”: i.e., this ministry, yes-this
apostolic ministry, with emphasis on the adjective “apostolic,” which is
obtained by exchange for the noun.

Act. 3:14.-“But ye denied the Holy One and the Just.” Here, it is
perfectly clear that only One Person is meant, though two are
apparently described: i.e., “ye denied the Holy One, yes-the righteous
Holy One, and desired a murderer (an unrighteous criminal) to be
granted unto you.” By the use of this figure here the contrast between
that “righteous” one and the criminal is strongly marked and
emphasized.

Act. 14:13.-“Then the priest of Jupiter which was (i.e., whose statue
stood) before their city, brought oxen and garlands unto the gates,
and would have done sacrifice.”

In the heathen worship, the victim to be sacrificed was always
decorated with a garland immediately before the sacrifice took place,
as may be seen to-day in pictures and sculptures. There were two
things then brought by the priest, but there is only one idea; and the
figure tells us and shows us that every arrangement had been made,
and that all was ready; nothing hindered the immediate offering of the
sacrifice. “The priest ... brought oxen, yes-and they had their garlands
on too.” All this gives a vivid picture; and the whole scene is presented
to our minds by the employment of this simple yet beautiful and
expressive figure, “oxen and garlands.”

Act. 23:6.-“Of the hope and resurrection of the dead | am called in
question”: i.e., of the hope, yes-the resurrection hope ... am | called in
question.

Rom. 1:5.-“By whom we have received grace and apostleship”: i.e.,
grace, yes-and apostolic grace too.

Rom. 2:27.-“Letter and circumcision.” See under Ellipsis, page 23.
Rom. 11:17.-“And with them partakest of the root and the fatness of
the olive tree”: i.e., the root, yes-and the fat or prolific root; or the rich
blessings which come forth from that root.* [Note: See Article on “The
Fig, the Olive, and the Vine” in Things to Come for July, 1899.]

1Со. 2:4.-“In demonstration of the Spirit and of power”: {6., of the
Spirit, yes-of the power of the Spirit too.

1Co. 11:7.-‘Forasmuch as he is the image and glory ({6., the
glorious image) of God.”

Eph. 4:11.-“And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and
some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers”: i.e., pastors (or
shepherds), yes-shepherds who should feed too; or teachers, yes-
teachers who should shepherd too. Not two classes of persons, but
one; implying that a shepherd who did not feed would fail in his duty;
and so would a teacher who failed to be a pastor.

Eph. 5:5.-“Hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of
God”: i.e., the kingdom of Christ, yes-of Christ who is truly God.

Eph. 6:18.-“Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the
Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and
supplication for all saints’: /е., praying with all prayer (this is
Polyploton, q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) and supplication: i.e., prayer, yes-
with supplicating prayer too; and watching thereunto with every kind of
supplication, yes, with persevering supplication too.

Col. 2:8.-“Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and
vain deceit.”

Here, we have not two things, but one: through philosophy, yes-a
vain, deceitful philosophy too.

Col. 2:18.-“Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary
humility and worshipping of angels, intruding into those things which
he hath not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind.”

The marginal notes in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] show the difficulties created by not seeing the
Hendiadys here.

It is certain that θρησκεία (threeskeia) means religion (not
worship), and is so rendered in all the other places where it occurs
(see Act. 26:5. Jam. 1:26-27). It must be so rendered here: “humility
and religion”: i.e., humility, yes-the religious humility of angels.

If we observe this figure, it throws all the other words into their
right places, and enables us to give them their right meanings. This
gives sense also to the reading of all the Textual Critics, and with the
Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] in omitting the negative µή
(mee) before the word “seen.” It also saves our having to condemn
these Colossian saints for angel-worship! Surely there is nothing in
this epistle to warrant the conclusion that they had fallen as low as
that | The passage is a warning to the saints who had been well-
instructed as to their standing in Christ that they were not to forget in
their worshipping the Father that they had a higher standing than that
of angels, even that of beloved sons, in the acceptance of “the
Beloved One.” They had “boldness of access” as sons, and not merely
that which pertained to “angels” as messengers.

We cannot think that this is a mere warning not to make angels an
object of worship. Such a thought is far below the whole scope and
teaching of the epistle.
The verse then will read: “Let no one deprive you of your prize,
having pleasure in (so Lightfoot) the religious humility of angels, taking
his stand upon (so R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] margin)
the things which he hath seen, vainly puffed up by the mind of his
flesh (i.e., by his old nature) and not holding the head,” etc.

If we hold the great truth of the “Mystery” concerning the Head and
members of the Body of Christ, we shall understand and take our
proper standing before God, which He himself has given us.

To cease from “holding the Head” is to lose practically all our
special privileges as members of His Body. It is to take up an attitude
before God, in our access to Him, below that in which His love and
grace has set us. It is to take the place of religious humility as the
angels, as servants instead of sons-even the sons of God. It is to
worship with veiled faces at a distance, instead of with unveiled faces,
beholding the glory of the Lord. It is a reigned humility, not
apprehending the exceeding riches of the grace of God toward us in
Christ Jesus; which is sure to issue in a regard for visible things and
religious ordinances which are the natural objects of the fleshly mind
(the Old nature), the only things which it can comprehend or
understand. Hence the theme of ordinances being done away in
Christ follows in verses 11-15. “Which sort of things have indeed an
appearance of wisdom in self-devised religious observances and
humiliation (of mind) and discipline (of the body); yet are not really of
any value to remedy indulgence of the flesh* [Note: See R.V. and
Lightfoot (Com. in loco) for this beautiful and happy rendering.] (ie.,
the Old nature).”

The exhortation is plural; but the warning is directed against some
individual, who, puffed up and led by his Old nature, would fain teach
them that as angels in their worship “veiled their faces” and take the
most humble place, therefore it was only becoming that they should
do the same. These were the only things which the “flesh” could see;
this was the standing that the flesh would fain take! But they were not
to be thus defrauded of that high calling and standing which they had
in Christ, and which enabled them to draw near with boldness to the
throne of grace.
1Th. 2:12.-“That ye would walk worthy of God, who hath called you
unto his kingdom and glory”: i.e., his kingdom, yes-his glorious
kingdom too; or, his glorious kingdom, with emphasis on the word
“glorious.”
1Ti. 3:15.-“The Church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the
truth.”

This is spoken of “the truth”-“the mystery of the faith” (verse 9),
and “the mystery” which is “confessedly great” (verse 16). This is the
pillar, yes-the great foundation pillar of the truth: i.e., Christ Mystical,
as set forth in verse 16.* [Note: See The Mystery, by the same author
and publisher. Price sixpence.]

2Ti. 1:10.-“Our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death and
hath brought life and immortality to light”: /е., life, yes-and immortal
life too.

2Ti. 4:1-2.-This verse requires re-translating; owing to the Figures,
and the older readings witnessed to by the Critical Texts and the R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
“| adjure thee, therefore, before God, yes-Christ Jesus, | mean
(1Ti. 5:21), who is about to judge the living and dead; and [/ adjure
thee] by His appearing, yes-and His royal appearing too, Preach the
Word.” For this judgment shall be when He “shall sit upon the throne
of His glory,” not in the act of His first shining forth at His epiphaneia.
The adjuration is similar to Deu. 4:26; Deu. 30:19; Deu. 31:28, and is
called forth by the fact that the Scriptures are God-breathed and
profitable. “Therefore” it is that “I adjure thee” to preach the word. The
solemn adjuration is needed, because of the fact that “the time will
come when they will not endure sound teaching.” This is no reason
why preachers should seek for something that men will endure, but it
is given as the very reason why the word of God and that alone should
be persistently proclaimed and taught. It is a reason so strange that
the charge has to be set in the full view of coming judgment. Hence, in
verses 1 and 8, the fact of judgment is twice stated. The charge is
beset with judgment before and behind.

The figure Hendiadys, which the Spirit twice employs to enhance
the force of the words, the enemy uses to obscure it; trading by his
devices on the ignorance of those who profess to be preachers of this
Word.

Tit. 2:13.-“Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing.”
Not two things but one: our hope is the glorious appearing!
The latter clause is also Hendiadys: One Person being meant, not
two: the appearing of the great God, yes-even our Saviour Jesus
Christ: i.e., our Divine Saviour.

Jam. 3:9.-“Therewith bless we God, even the Father.” Lit., the God
and Father: i.e., God, yes-even that God who is our Father.

2Pe. 1:3.-“Through the knowledge of him who hath called us to glory
and virtue.”

But the Greek is “by,” as stated in the margin, διά (dia) with the
genitive, denoting the cause or instrument. The R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] renders it “by his own glory and virtue” (and
tells us, in the margin, that “some ancient authorities read through
glory and virtue”), translating the figure literally, and (like the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] ), missing the force of it.

But it is one thing, not two.

Note that the Critical Texts read idia (idee), his own, instead of διά
(dia), through, the dative case denoting the agency, by.

Note also that ἀρετή (aretee) means goodness, excellence in art
or workmanship; goodness, as shown by the possession of reputation
bravery and merit. This is what God has called His people by: His own
goodness, will and power, yes-His glorious power too; His own
excellent workmanship, His own gracious dealing.

2Pe. 1:16.-“When we made known unto you the power and coming”:
ie., either the coming power, or the powerful coming, or both.

2Pe. 1:17.-“For he received from God the Father honour and glory”:
i.e., honour, yes-and glorious honour too.

Christ received this glorious honour, which was put upon Him, “on
the holy mount’ of transfiguration.

The wondrous act which there took place was the official anointing,
appointing, and consecrating of Christ for His Priestly office and
sacrificial work. The only subject spoken of on that mount was “the
Exodus which He should accomplish at Jerusalem” (Luk. 9:31). Not
the death to which man should put Him, but “which He should
accomplish” Himself. Heb. 2:9 distinctly tells us why Christ was thus
crowned: 2Pe. 1:17-18, tells us where.
It tells us that He was made a little lower than the angels for the
suffering of death; crowned with glory and honour, that He, by the
grace of God, should taste death for every man” (see Synecdoché).

This is confirmed by Exo. 28:2, where we are distinctly told that,
when Aaron was consecrated to his priestly office, “that he may
minister unto me in the priest's office,” “thou (Moses) shalt make holy
garments for Aaron thy brother, for glory and for beauty.” Here are the
same two words, τιµὴ καὶ δόξα (timee kai doxa), for honour, yes-and
for glorious honour too!

Can we resist the conclusion that on the Holy Mount the Lord

Jesus was thus consecrated for His (Melchisedekian) priesthood.
True, Moses was there, and Elijah; but this glorious honour with which
Christ was clothed and crowned was put upon Him by no earthly
hands. It came “from the excellent glory."* [Note: For further
elucidation of the Transfiguration and its objects, see Christ’s
Prophetic Teaching, by the same author and publisher.]
Rev. 5:10.-Here we must adopt the rendering of the R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] : “And madest them to be unto our God a
kingdom and priests, and they reign upon the earth”: i.e., a kingdom,
yes-and a great priestly kingdom too, the plural “priests” being put by
Heterosis for the singular, denoting the greatness.
2. Verbs

Mat. 13:23.-The Hendiadys is disguised in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
through the separation of the two words: “He that was sown upon the
good ground, this is he who hears and understands the word.” The
person who heareth and understandeth is one. One act is meant, and
not two. All hear, but this one heareth, yes-and understandeth it too.
Luk. 6:48.-“He is like a man ... who dug and deepened, and laid the
foundation on the rock.”

Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] renders it: “and digged deep.” The R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] : “who digged and went deep.”

It is clear that we have the figure Hendiadys in the two verbs: the
man digged, yes-and very deep; deeper and deeper indeed till he got
to the rock itself.

Act. 9:31.-“Then ... the churches ... were edified and walking in the
fear of the Lord ... were multiplied.

Here, in the Received Text, the verbs are not in the same
inflection. But the Critical Texts (L. [Note: . Lachmann and his critical
Greek Text.] T. [Note: . Tischendorf and his critical Greek Text.] Tr.
[Note: r. Tregelles and his critical Greek Text.] A. [Note: . Alford and
his critical Greek Text.] WH. [Note: H. Westcott and Hort, and their
critical Greek Text.] , and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] )
read: οἰκοδομουμένη Kai  πορευοµένη (oikodomoumenee — kai
poreuomenee), being built up and progressing: i.e., being built up,
yes-and increasingly so too.

Note also that the Critical Texts read: ἐκκλησία (ecclesia) assembly
(instead of plural); and ἐπκηθύνετο (epleethuneto), was multiplied
(instead of plural).

Act. 13:41.-“Behold, ye despisers, and wonder and perish: {6.,
perish, yes-and perish wonderfully too.

1Th. 4:1.-“As ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to
please God”: i.e., how ye ought to walk, yes-and how to please God in
your walk, with emphasis on the verb fo please.
2Pe. 3:12.-“Looking for, and hasting unto the coming of the day of
God.” Here, “looking for’ is προσδοκάω (prosdokaq),* [Note: Mat.
11:3; Mat. 24:50. Luk. 1:21; Luk. 3:15; Luk. 7:19-20; Luk. 8:40; Luk.
12:46. Act. 3:5; Act. 10:24; Act. 27:33; Act. 28:6 (twice). 2Pe. 3:12-14.]
and “hasting” is σπεύδω (δρειαφ), to hasten. Everywhere elset
[Note: Luk. 2:16; Luk. 19:5-6. Act. 20:16; Act. 22:18.] the latter verb is
intransitive; but here it is transitive to correspond with “looking for,”
and means {ο be eager or earnest for a thing. № qualifies the “looking
for’ and not the “coming” itself: i.e., looking for, yes-and earnestly
looking for that coming too.

We cannot hasten that day, which is fixed in the counsels of God,
but we can be more eager and earnest in our looking for it. The R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] has “earnestly desiring the
coming.” This is better; but it is stronger when we recognize the figure-
looking for and being earnest for, which is the figure Hendiadys;
earnestly looking for, with the emphasis on earnestly.

Rev. 20:4.-“And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years”:
ie., they lived, yes-and they reigned too.

Rev. 22:17.-“And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever willeth,
let him take.” Not two classes of persons, but one. Not thirsty ones
who do not will; or willing ones who do not thirst; but willing thirsty
ones, let them come: See under Epistrophe.

Hendiatris; or, Three for One

Three words used, but one thing meant
Though the Greeks did not name such a figure, it is clear that it is
employed in Scripture. For we sometimes find three nouns instead of
two, and in these cases there are two nouns exalted to the place of
emphatic adjectives, which are thus raised to equal importance with
the subject itself.
Jer. 4:2.-“And thou shalt swear, The Lord liveth, in truth, in judgment,
and in righteousness”: {6., thou shalt swear, in truth (/.e., truly, yes-
justly and righteously).

In swearing by Jehovah in truth, justice and righteousness is
included; not only that people swear the truth (Lev. 19:12. Num. 30:3.
Jer. 5:2. Mat. 5:33), but also that they swear by Jehovah alone (i.e.,
justly and righteously), and not by idols also, as, according to Zep. 1:5,
they did in his day.* [Note: Scott, Com. in loco.]

Dan. 3:7.-“All the people, the nations, and the languages fell down
and worshipped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had
set up.”

Now “languages” do not fall down; neither do they worship;
Therefore the words are used as a figure, and the figure is Hendiatris:
All the people, yes-and people of all nations and languages, fell down
and worshipped.

Mat. 6:13.-“For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory”:
ie., for thine is the kingdom, yes-and the powerful and glorious
kingdom too.

Joh. 14:6.-“I am the way, and the truth, and the life.” This is hidden
in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] which ignores the first “and.”

The whole subject of conversation here is Christ as “the way.” See
the context. We have here therefore another example of Hendiadiatris:
“lam the way, yes-the true and living way; for no man cometh unto the
Father, but by me.”

Of course, Christ is the “truth,” as He is also the “life”: but this is
not what is stated in this verse. Here, only one subject is in question:
viz., “the way”; and the other two nouns are used to define its true
nature and character.
Catachresis; or, Incongruity
One word changed for another only remotely connected with it
Cat’-a-chree-sis. Greek, κατάχρησις, from καρά (kata), against, and
χρῆσθαι (chreesthai), to use. Hence, misuse.

Catachresis is a figure by which one word is changed for another,
and this against or contrary to the ordinary usage and meaning of it.
The word that is changed is transferred from its strict and usual
signification to another that is only remotely connected with it. Hence
called by the Latins ABUSIO, abuse.

In Metonymy there is a relation between the two words. In
Synecdoche there is some association between them. In Hendiadys
there is a real connection between them. But in Catachresis all this is
wanting, and the two words or meanings, though they may have
between them something remotely akin or analagous, yet have no real
or strict relation; and the connection is often incongruous.

When man uses this figure, it may often be from ignorance or
through carelessness, but often with good effect. Attention is
sometimes arrested by a delightful incongruity, as when Young writes:

“Her voice was but the shadow of a sound”:
where the sense is very forcibly conveyed by changing the ordinary
usage of the word “shadow.”
“Sorrow was big at her heart.”

Or when we say that a thing is “beautiful to the ear,” or “melodious to
the eye”; or, when we apply the word “sweet” to things other than
articles of food which we taste.

But, when the Holy Spirit uses this figure, it is in order to arrest us;
and to attract our attention, by the apparent incongruity, and thus fix it
on what He says.

Sometimes the translators introduce a Catachresis, where there is
none in the Original: e.g., in Exo. 38:8, they say: “Moses made the
laver of brass, and the foot of it of brass out of the looking-glasses of
the women.” (But see margin.) The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] avoids this by rendering the word correctly “mirrors.”

The figure does not mislead; it merely acts as spice or condiment
does to food.

Catachresis is of three kinds:-

i. Of two words, where the meanings are remotely akin.
ii. Of two words, where the meanings are different.
iii. Of one word, where the Greek receives its real meaning by
permutation from the Hebrew, or some other language, or
foreign usage.

i. Of two words, where the meanings are remotely akin
Lev. 26:30.-‘I will cast your carcases upon the carcases of your idols.”

Here the word “carcase” is changed from its strictly correct
application to flesh and blood, and its use applied to the fragments of
wood or stone of an idol.

Num. 9:18.-“At the mouth of Jehovah.”

Here it is translated “commandment”: but the figure arrests us; and
points us to the Divine Source of the command as opposed to any
human injunction. See Epistrophe.

Deu. 16:7.-“And thou shalt cook and eat it in the place which the Lord
thy God shall choose.”

Both A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

render it “roast.” The latter however puts seethe in the margin.
“Seethe” is sometimes used for cook: and thus there is a remote
connection with roast, as commanded, in Exo. 12:8-9. So 1Sa. 2:15.
Compare Joe. 3:13 (4:13).

Deu. 32:14.-“Thou didst drink the pure blood of the grape.”

Here “blood” is used by Catachresis. For, as “blood” is that which
comes from man, so the juice is that which comes from the grape.
There is an incongruity, because the two are only remotely akin. But
our attention is attracted to what is being said.
2Sa. 23:17.-“Is not this the blood of the men that went in jeopardy of
their lives?”
The water which the three mighty men brought to David is called
their blood: and thus, in one incongruous word, is eloquently
expressed the shedding of their own blood, which the men had risked
for David's sake.

Job. 4:12.-“Now a word was brought by stealth to me.”

This is a most unusual way of describing an angelic
communication.

Psa. 74:1.-“Why doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy
pasture?”

Psa. 80:4 (5).-“How long wilt thou smoke against the prayer of thy
people?” (margin).

Used by Catachresis for the heat of anger.

Psa. 88:5.-“Free among the dead”: {6., set at liberty is put by
Catachresis for cast off, deserted.

Isa. 62:5.-“For as a young man marrieth a virgin, so shall thy sons
marry thee.”

To speak of sons marrying their mother is incongruous, and yet
what else could be said? How else could it be expressed? But ané.
(baal) means not only {ο marry, but to possess; or as we express it “to
have and to hold’ in possession. This is the primitive and proper
meaning of the word, and to marry is only a secondary usage. It
means to have, own, possess. See 1Ch. 4:22, “who had the dominion
in Moab”; Isa. 26:13, “other lords beside thee have had dominion over
us.”

It is from not seeing the beautiful figure Catachresis here, by
which, through what looks like an incongruity, that Bishop Lowth and
others suggest an emendation of the Hebrew Text, by reading adée
(bonahyik), thy builders, for adée (bahnayik), thy sons. The change
is plausible; but it is destitute of any MS. or other ancient authority;
and such arbitrary alterations of the Text are to be deprecated, being
purely conjectural. Moreover, it is unnecessary, for the builder is not
necessarily the possessor or the owner. The apparent incongruity of
the figure arrests our attention; and, when we give the attention which
is thus demanded, we find the passage means that as a young man
marries a virgin, so shall Zion’s sons hold her in sure and happy
possession.

Hos. 14:2 (3).-“So will we render the calves of our lips”: /.e., our lips
as sacrifices. See under Metonymy; and compare Heb. 13:15.
Mat. 12:5.-“On the sabbath days the Priests in the temple profane the
sabbath, and are blameless.” It sounds incongruous to state this as a
fact: but it expresses what was true according to the mistaken notions
of the Pharisees as to manual works performed on the sabbath.
Rom. 7:23.-1 see another law in my members.” He means that he
sees sin: which, through the authority with which it rules his members,
he calls, by Catachresis, “law.” See under Antanaclasis.
1Co. 1:25.-“The foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the
weakness of God is stronger than men.” It is incongruous to speak of
“foolishness” or “weakness” with respect to God. So we are arrested
by the use of this figure Catachresis.
Col. 3:5.-“Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth.”
The members which commit the sins are put by a forcible Catachresis
for the sins themselves. For the sins are immediately enumerated, not
the members. See chap. 2:11.
ii. Of two words, where the meanings are different

Exo. 5:21.-“Ye have made our savour to stink in the eyes of Pharaoh.”

Here “stink” and “eyes” are incongruously conjoined to call our
attention to the highest degree of abhorrence.
Exo. 20:18 (15).-“And all the people saw the thunderings.”

Here seeing is joined to what was only heard. But see under
Zeugma, by which one verb is made to go with two different nouns.
(See Rev. 1:12 below).

Mar. 7:21-22.-“Out of the heart proceed evil thoughts ... an evil eye.”
Here the Catachresis is only in appearance, as “an evil eye” is put
by Metonymy for envy, which does proceed out of the heart.

Compare Mat. 20:15, and see further under Asyndeton.
1Ti. 6:19.-“Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation
against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life.”

Here the “laying up treasure” is joined with “foundation,” and
“laying hold” is joined with the house which is from heaven. 2Co. 5:2.
Rev. 1:12.-“And | turned to see the voice that spake with me.”

Here “voice” is put by Metonymy (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.] ), for the
person speaking. Apart from this, there is a Catachresis; seeing being
joined with that which is invisible and only heard. (See Exo. 20:18.)

iii. Of one word, where the Greek receives its real meaning by

permutation from another language, or foreign usage
Mat. 8:6. Act. 4:27.-Where traic (pais), a child, is used of a servant,
from the Hebrew αἴζ (nahar), which has both meanings. The A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] renders it “servant” in Matt., and “child” in Acts; while the R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] renders it “servant” in both places,
spelling it in Acts “Servant.”

Mat. 11:25; Luk. 10:21; Rom. 14:11; Heb. 13:15.- ὁμολογεῖν
(homologein), to confess, is used of to praise or celebrate, like the
Hebrew alaa (hqdah) which has both meanings. See Gen. 49:8.
2598. 22:50.

Mat. 24:29.-“And the powers of the heavens shall be shaken.” Here,
δυνάμεις (dunameis), powers, means really armies, from the Hebrew
aéé (chayeel) which has both meanings.

Mat. 28:1.-μία (mia), one, is the Greek cardinal numeral, but it is used
here for the ordinal, first, like the Hebrew fca (echad), which has
both meanings. See Gen. 1:5, etc. (See Mar. 16:9.)

Luk. 1:37.-“For with God nothing shall be impossible.” Here, ῥῆμα
(rheema), word or saying, is used for thing, the Hebrew aar (davar)
having both meanings. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
renders ῥῆμα literally; αἱ the expense of forcing the word ἀδυναρήσει
(adunateesei), shall be impossible; which it renders “shall be void of
power.”

Luk. 16:17.-“It is easier for heaven and earth to pass than one tittle of
the law to fail.” Here, ρίρτειν (piptein), to fall or fail, is used for not to
be fulfilled, or to be of no effect (Rom. 9:6. 1Sa. 3:19). The Hebrew
66 (naphal) has both meanings. See Jos. 23:14. Est. 6:10.

The reference to the ‘tittle’ is interesting, and very beautifully
includes both the meanings.

The σῖα (cheren), horn, is called in the Greek κεραία (keraia), little
horn (Mat. 5:18 and Luk. 16:17). Another, and commoner Hebrew
name is ufari (taageem), little crowns.* [Note: The plural of )6
(cheren), horn, is !¥/UOZ> | (ch’rahnoth), horns.]

The Massorah explains that the /ittle horn or crown is an ornament
or little flourish (something like a tiny fleur-de-lis, of various forms, or a
mere hair-line flourish) placed above certain letters and coming out
from their top, according to certain definite and prescribed rules. Thus
the common fancy, which is as old as Jerome, is exploded: which
explained the “tittle” as being the difference between two similar
letters: e.g., Daleth (A) and Resh (1); Beth (A) and Kaph (6), etc.

The meaning of the passage is that it is easier for heaven and
earth to pass away, than for one of these Taagim, or little crowns to
fall, or for the minutest word of God not to be fulfilled.
Act. 10:22. Luk. 1:6; Luk. 2:25.-δίκαιος (dikaios), which is an
adjective, and means strictly righteous, is used generally for a good
man, like the Heb., 6aé- (tzaddeek), which has both meanings.

Act. 13:34.-“The sure mercies of David.”

Here the words τὰ ὅσια (ta hosia), holy or just things, are used for
promises made, and mercies vouchsafed, in pure grace; the Heb.
cnaéi (chasadeem) having both meanings. The quotation is from
Isa. 15:3; and the reference is to Jehovah’s unconditional covenant
made with David in 2Sa. 7:1-29 The passage means “I will give to you
the faithful promises made to David.”

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] gives an unusually long marginal note; and the
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] renders it “I will give you the
holy and sure blessings of David’; which is very laboured and
obscure, compared with the simplicity of meaning conveyed and
brought out by the figure Catachresis, which shows that 2Sa. 7:1-29
was in question, and the holy things, i.e., the promises, there made in
grace to David.
1Со. 2:6.-“Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect.”
Here the word τέλειος (teleios) receives its true meaning, initiated,
from the Greek mysteries, where it was used of one who had been
initiated into them.
1Co. 15:54.-“Death is swallowed up in victory”: i.e., for ever, as the
Heb. ἄδς (netzach) means, as well as victory, when it has the
Lamed (ὅ) prefixed. See Isa. 25:8 (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] ). Amo. 1:11 (both A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] ). Also Psa. 13:1 (2). Pro. 21:28.
2Co. 6:12; 2Co. 7:15. Luk. 1:78. Col. 3:12. Php. 1:8.- σπλάγχνα
(splangna), bowels, is used for mercy, like the Heb., rciéi
(rachameem), which has both meanings.

See Gen. 43:30. Psa. 51:1 (3). Pro. 12:10. When used with the
word “mercies” itself, it denotes tender mercies.

Gal. 2:21.-“I do not frustrate (or esteem at a small price) the grace of
God: for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead (i.e.,
died) in vain.” Here, δωρεάν (dqrean), a free gift, is put for µάτην
(mateen), in vain; and the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] so translates it. The R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] renders it “for nought.” But, like
the Heb. cdi (chinnam), µάτην means in vain, while δωρεάν means
without a cause. See Psa. 109:3.

1Th. 4:4, and 1Pe. 3:7, where σκεῦος (skeuos), a vase or utensil, is
used for the Heb. 666 (klee), which has a wider meaning,
instrument or weapon. See Hos. 13:15, and 1Sa. 21:3-6.

Heb. 11:31; Jam. 2:25.-“The harlot Rahab”: where πόρνη (pornee), a
harlot, receives its true meaning from the Heb. élda (zqbnah) which
means a female hostess, or landlady, as well as harlot.

1Pe. 3:14.-δικαιοσύνη (dikaiosunee), righteousness, is used of
ordinary piety, kindness, etc. So 2Co. 9:9. Mat. 6:1 according to one
reading (see Metonymy and Synecdoche).

Rev. 2:7; Rev. 22:2; Rev. 22:14.-‘The tree of life.” In the Greek €UAov
(xylon) means wood; but receives its meaning of “tree” from the Heb.
ᾖό (eytz), tree, which is frequently rendered €UAov (xylon) in the LXX.
[Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]
Rev. 14:8; Rev. 18:3.-“She hath made all nations drink of the wine of
the wrath of her fornication.” Here, θυμός (thumos), wrath, means
heat, as well as anger; like the Heb. cia (cheymah), heat, venom, or
poison. See Job. 6:4, where the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint
Version (325 b.c.).] renders it θυµός (thumos), evil or affliction, as
Mat. 6:34. So that the meaning is “the heating or poisonous wine of
her fornication.”
Metallage; or, a Changing Over

A different subject of thought substituted for the original subject
Me-tal’-la-gee. Greek µεταλλαγή, from µετά (meta), beyond, or across;
and ἀλλαγή (allagee), a change, exchange (from ἀλλάσσω, allasso).
Hence, Metallage means a taking over in exchange.

In this figure the word taken over is exchanged for a separate
object of thought.
The Latins called it SUPPOSITIO, substitution, and MATERIALIS,
the mother stuff: i.e., one material out of which something else is
made. The figure Metallage is used when a word is taken as the
material, and out of it another object of thought is made and
substituted.

Brydane exclaims, “О frightful and terrible perhaps!” Whitefield
speaks of “Judas accosting his glorious Lord with a ‘Hail, Master!’ ”
Hos. 4:18.-“Their drink is sour: they have committed whoredom
continually: her rulers with shame do love, ‘Give ye.’ ”

Antonomasia; or, Name-Change
Change of proper name for appellative; or vice versa
Ап -to-no-mer-si-a. Greek, ἀντονομασία, a different name, from
ἀντονομάζειν, to name instead; and this from ἀντί (anti), instead, and
ἀνομάζειν (onomazein), to name (from ὄνομα (onoma), a name).
This figure is so called because a proper name is put for a
common or appellative noun; or because, on the contrary, an
appellation derived from some attribute is put for a proper name. As
when a name of some office, dignity, profession, science, or trade, is
used instead of the proper name of the person: e.g., when we speak
of the Queen as Her Majesty, or of a nobleman as his lordship; or
when a wise man is called a Solon, or a Solomon, etc.

When we speak of David as “the Psalmist,” or of Paul as “the
Apostle,” we use the figure Antonomasia.
Gen. 31:21.-The Euphrates is called “the river’ on account of its
greatness. See also Jos. 24:2. Psa. 72:8; Psa. 80:11 (12), where also
“the sea” is put for “the Great Sea,” which is another Antonomasia for
the Mediterranean. See also Mic. 7:12.
1Sa. 4:21.-“And she named the child ‘In-glorious’ (i.e., /-chabqbd),
saying, ‘The glory is departed,’ ” /-chabqbd meaning there is no glory.
The name occurs once more, in chap. 14:3.
Isa. 62:4.-

“Thou shalt no more be termed ‘Forsaken’;

Neither shall thy land any more be termed ‘Desolate’:
But thou shalt be called ‘Hephzi-bah’ (i.e., my delight is in her),
And thy land ‘Beulah’ (i.e., married).”

Here note that the four lines are alternate: the subject of the first
and third being the People, while that of the second and fourth is the
Land.

Hos. 1:6.-“And He said unto him, Call her name ‘Not-having-
obtained-mercy (i.e., Lo-ruhamah).”

Hos. 12:13 (14).-Moses is called “a Prophet,” because he was par
excellence the prophet. See Deu. 34:10-12.

Mar. 8:20.-“And when [/ brake] the seven among four thousand”: {6.,
the seven loaves.

Act. 3:14.-“But ye denied the Holy One and the Just”: i.e., the Lord
Jesus Christ. See Hendiadys.
Act. 22:14.-“The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou
shouldest know his will, and see that Just (or Righteous) One”: i.e.,
the Lord Jesus. Thus was Paul led of the Spirit to avoid the use of any
word which would excite and inflame them. By this means he obtained
audience, until, in verse 21, he had to use the word “Gentiles” (“I will
send thee far hence unto the Gentiles”), when we read: “And they
gave him audience unto this word.”
Act. 25:26.-The Roman Emperor is called “my lord.”

The Divine Names and Titles are sometimes the attributes of God
used as proper names:-

God is called the Strong One (El); or, the Most High (Elyqpn). Psa.
5:4 (5); 22:1 (2), etc.

Christ is in the same way called the Lord. Mat. 21:3. Joh. 11:3;
Joh. 11:12, etc.

The Teacher or Master. Mat. 26:18. Joh. 11:28.

The Son of man (see under Synecdoche). Mat. 8:20; Mat. 9:6;
Mat. 10:23; Mat. 11:19; Mat. 12:8, etc.

The Angel. Gen. 48:16. Exo. 23:20.
The Angel of the Lord. Exo. 3:2. Jdg. 6:11

So also other appellatives are used: e.g., “The Seed of the
woman,” “The Messiah,” “The Servant of Jehovah,” “The Messenger
of the Covenant,” “The Prophet,” etc.

Euphemismos; or, Euphemy
Change of what is unpleasant for pleasant
Eu’-phee-mis’-mos. Greek, αὐφημισμός, from  εὐφημίζειν
(euphemizein), to use words of good omen, from Е0 (eu), well, and
φημί (pheemi), to speak Hence, Eng., Euphemy.

Euphemy is a figure by which a harsh or disagreeable expression
is changed for a pleasant and agreeable one; or, where an offensive
word or expression is changed for a gentle one; or an indelicate word
for a modest word.
This figure is not, strange to say, generally used as with us of the
ordinary functions of nature, which are often exaggerated by
civilization and fashion into a false modesty. The Scriptures use very
plain language on plain subjects: but there are beautiful Euphemies
used where really delicate feelings or sentiments are affected.

Indeed, we may say that the contrast between the Hebrew and
other languages in this respect is one of the greatest proofs of
Inspiration. Other languages abound in terms of indecency and
immorality, which are a corrupt reflex of the corrupt mind of fallen man.
But “the words of Jehovah are pure words.”

As to our “uncomely parts,” as the Holy Spirit terms them, there is
actually no word in the Hebrew for the female, and for the male a
Euphemy is employed.

We may contrast with this the tendency of man, not only downward
in this direction, but in his vain attempts to cover his sin and to make
himself appear better than he is. Examples abound in every day life.
“A love-child” covers illegitimacy; “a free life” glosses a debauchee; “a
gentleman of the road” covered a highway robber. So the Romans
called a thief “a man of three letters,” because the Latin word for thief
is “fur.” On the other hand, among ourselves, “the hydraulic van” has
superseded the water-cart; the shop has become an “establishment”
or “emporium”; the butcher has blossomed into “a purveyor of meat”;
the hair-dresser is “an artist” or “professor,” etc., etc.

But the Euphemisms of the Bible are not like these! Sin is not
glossed over or “wrapped up,” but spoken of plainly in all its
abomination. Man is not deceived by coloured and pretty ornaments of
speech.
Compare, again, man’s Euphemies of “life” and “death”; and note
the false teaching conveyed by them, when compared with those used
in the word of God. Man calls “death” a friend, and speaks of “joining
the majority’: but God speaks of it as a terrible calamity, and calls it
“the enemy’; “the last enemy,” “the king of terrors,” etc., though, in the
case of His own people, He speaks of their being “put to sleep by
Jesus” (1Th. 4:14). It is only a “sleep”; because the Lord Himself will
come to wake them.

The change in Euphemy is necessarily obtained by using several
words for one, and is therefore a special kind of Periphrasis: i.e., a
Periphrasis used with a special object.

Hence it was called also PERIPLOCE (Per-i-plok’-ee), from περί
(peri), around, and πλοκή (plokee), a folding; a figure by which the
unpleasantness of a thing is wrapped round and made to appear
agreeable.

CHROMA (Chro’-ma) was another name given to the figure, from
χρῶμα (chrapma), a colouring, an ornament, or embellishment.

The Latins called it also INVOLUTIO: i.e., an involution.

In English we might call it “a smooth handle”: i.e., a polite
expression for a rough or unpleasant one.

Gen. 15:15.-“Thou shalt go to thy fathers”: i.e., shalt die.

Gen. 42:38.-“Then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to
the grave”: i.e., ye will kill me.

Jdg. 3:24.-“Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.”
When an Eastern stoops down, his garments fall over and cover his
feet. Hence the Euphemy, the meaning of which is given in the
margin. See also 1Sa. 24:3.

2Sa. 18:32.-David enquired of Cushi: “Is the young man Absalom
safe? And Cushi answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all
that rise against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is.”

Thus, by two beautiful Euphemisms, Cushi reminded David of
Absalom’s treason and its deserts, while he also intimated that he had
been slain.

Rth. 3:9.-“Spread ... thy skirt over thine handmaid”: i.e., receive me in
the way of marriage.

2Ki. 22:20.-“I will gather thee unto thy fathers (i.e., thou shalt die), and
thou shalt be gathered into thy grave (i.e., be buried) in peace.”

Neh. 4:23 (17).-“None of us put off our clothes, saving that every one
put them off. for washing.” (Margin, every one went with his weapon
for water.)

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] is no clearer: “None
of us put off our clothes, every one went with his weapon to the
water”; and puts it in the margin: “The text is probably faulty”! This is
like man; who always thinks the fault is in the Text instead of in
himself. When he meets with a difficulty, it never dawns on him that
the difficulty lies in his own head, or is of his own creating!

The Hebrew is literally: “None of us put off our clothes; each man
went with his weapon (or tool) and water”: i.e., he discharged his
water as he was (or as he stood): i.e., there was neither time nor
opportunity for retiring and for that laborious arrangement of the
clothes which an Eastern requires. And thus the simple Euphemy is
most expressive, and explains, instead of needing an explanation
(which after all does not explain)!
Glassius would treat the word “water” as a Synecdoche by which
“water,” the most important part of a man’s ration, is put for all of it.
“This would require the translation: “Each one went with his sword and
water”: i.e., one single weapon and one measured ration, “water”
being used alone for a measured ration, as it was a very important
part of the rations served out. Just as “salt” was served and measured
out to the Roman soldiers, and afterwards was used by Synecdoche
of the whole ration of which it was a part. Hence our term “salt-
money”; and the Latin, sa/arium, and English, salary. When we say “a
man is not worth his salt,” we preserve this Synecdoche; and, putting
a part for the whole, we mean that he is not worth his salary.

So it may be here in Neh. 4:23. The A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] , with these marginal renderings, clearly
show that something more is meant than what is said. But we believe
that the figure of Euphemy sufficiently and satisfactorily explains it.

There is, however, something to be said for Glassius’s suggestion
as to Synecdoche.

One thing is clear, which makes either figure explain or express
the one fact that is specially emphasized: viz., that Nehemiah and his
companions were building the wall with a trowel in one hand and a
sword in the other (4:17 (11), etc). So exigent were the circumstances
that they worked all night, and could take with them no armour or
supplies of food. A single weapon and a single ration were all they
could take.

Or so exigent were the circumstances that there was not even the
usual opportunity for performing the functions of nature in the ordinary
way. In either case the figure read in the light of the context shows the
urgency of the circumstances.

Job. 10:21-22.-Here, we have two beautiful Periphrases: “Before | go
whence | shall not return (i.e., before | die), even to the land of
darkness and the shadow of death”: i.e., the grave, etc. So Job. 16:22.
Job. 18:13.-"The first-born of death shall devour his strength”: i.e., the
cruellest and most calamitous death shall destroy him.

Job. 18:14.-Death is called “the king of terrors”: i.e., the terrible king
who claims so many subjects.

Psa. 94:17.-“Unless the Lord had been my help, my soul had almost
(marg., quickly) dwelt in silence”: i.e., | should soon have been dead
and buried.

Isa. 38:10.-“I shall go to the gates of the grave (Sheo/)”: i.e, | shall die.
This explains Mat. 16:18; where the corresponding word (Hades) is
used, and in the same sense: {6., death shall not prevail against the
accomplishment of God’s purposes.

Ecc. 3:21.-See Appendix E, and Erotesis.

Ecc. 12:1-7..We have a series of connected Periphrases and
Euphemisms.

One of them is worthy of a longer notice:-

Ecc. 12:5. - “And desire shall fail.” We have already considered this
under Metalepsis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), because there is a double
Metonymy. But there is a beautiful latent Euphemy as well. The
“caper-berry’ is put for the condiment made from it, and then the
condiment is put for the appetite or desire created by it.

But as this condiment was supposed specially to create sexual
desire, the Euphemy is elegantly expressed in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] (“and
desire shall fail”). The sense is absurdly lost in the R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ; while to make the obscurity caused by the
literal translation still greater, it is suggested in the margin that “fail”
may mean “burst.”
This is certainly one of the many passages in which the A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
far exceeds the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] in beauty as
well as accuracy, and shows that the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] is a Version, while
the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] is a Trans/ation.

Mat. 8:11.-“Many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit
down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven.”

This was a beautiful Euphemism; to avoid giving offence (at that
stage of Christ's ministry) to the Jews, who grudged the blessings
being extended to Gentiles.

Mat. 11:19 and Luk. 7:35.-“But wisdom is justified of (or on the part
of) her children.” By this Euphemy the Lord Jesus condemns those
who received Him not.

True wisdom was shown in submitting to the Son of God: “Be wise
now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of the earth.”
These words were written (Psa. 2:10) with special reference to the
reception of the Messiah: and all who were truly wise submitted
themselves. Those who did not are thus rebuked.

Joh. 2:25.-“He knew what was in man.” This is а solemn
condemnation of man; and shows something of his true nature and
character.

Joh. 11:11.-“Our friend Lazarus sleepeth ({6., is dead); but | go, that |
may awake him out of sleep”: i.e., raise him from the dead.

Act. 2:39.-“For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all
that are afar off’: /.е., to the Gentiles. Peter did not wish at that time to
give unnecessary offence.

There are many other Euphemisms which require no explanation,
and which the student will now readily note and mark for himself.
Ampliatio; or, Adjournment: /.е., an Old Name for a

New Thing

A retaining of an old Name after the reason for it is passed away
Am -pli-a’-ti-o is a figure discovered and named by the Latins. It is
from am’-pli-o, to fill out, extend; hence, its more special and technical
sense, fo adjourn: i.e., to extend the time. So that Ampliatio means an
adjournment: and the name is given to this figure, because a name or
epithet is used of a subject either (1) before it has acquired the reason
for giving the name, or (2) after the reason has ceased.

In the latter case “the wolf’ is still spoken of as the wolf in
Millennial days, when its wolf's nature has been changed (Isa. 11:6):
and in the former the Saviour is so called by the angels while still an
infant (Luk. 2:11). This use of the figure is of the nature of Prolepsis
(q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ).

Amopliatio thus differs from Amplificatio (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ),
though the two words are from the same root. The former has
reference to a change which has taken place; while in Amplificatio the
sense of a word or expression is made wider and expanded by a
repetition of the words in another form, in order to enlarge a narrative,
and to heighten or intensify what has already been said.

Ampliatio is thus a form of Epitheton (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ). The
original meaning of the figure is what is called permansive: i.e., the
name lives through the change which has taken place, and is still
used, though in a new sense.

There is a form of Prolepsis which is distinguished from Ampliatio,
(as opposed to Occupatio), but only as to time. It is a statement of
future things as though present, the real interpretation of them being
adjourned.

See under Prolepsis § 4 and § 6 of the last subdivision of Figures
involving Change.
Gen. 2:23.-“This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh.”
Though the bone and flesh of Adam were changed and made into
Eve, yet the name of the original source, “bone,” etc., is retained.
Exo. 7:12.-The rod of Aaron, when changed into a serpent, is still
called “a rod” by way of Ampliatio.
1Sa. 30:5. 2Sa. 3:3.-Abigail is still called, by way of Ampliatio, “the
wife of Nabal the Carmelite,” though Nabal was dead, and she was
the wife of David. Compare Mat. 1:6.
Isa. 11:6.-The term “wolf” is used, by Ampliatio, of the animal in
Millennial days, though his nature will have then been so changed that
he shall dwell with the lamb, which formerly he devoured, and be no
more really a wolf.
Amo. 6:8.-“I abhor the excellency of Jacob”: i.e., that which was once
so called, but was no longer worthy of the name, if this were the
Temple, it is so called by Атр/айо.
Mat. 10:3.-“Matthew the Publican” is still so called, though he had
ceased to be a publicanus, or tax-farmer: i.e., “Matthew, Who had
formerly been a publican.”

See Epitheton.
Mat. 11:5.-The blind are said to see, and the lame to walk after they
are restored. Thus, by the figure Ampliatio, the Epithet still clings to
them.
Mat. 26:6.-“Simon the leper” is so called after he was healed. The
Epithet still clings to him.
Luk. 2:11.-“Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour.”
He is so called proleptically, by way of Ampliatio. His saving work,
which gives Him this title, had then yet to be accomplished.
Joh. 9:17.-The Epithet “blind man’ is still used of the man after his
sight was restored. Compare verses 13 and 24.
Joh. 10:16.-“Other sheep | have.” They are so called, though they
were not yet in existence, except in the purpose of the Father.
Rom. 4:5.-“The ungodly” is so called after he is justified. The Epithet
is still used by way of Ampliatio.
1Со. 15:5.-"The twelve” are so-called after Judas’s death, by way of
Ampliatio, because they were formerly twelve: although there were
only eleven after, until Matthias was appointed.

So Act. 1:21-22.
2Co. 4:3.-“The perishing” are those who shall hereafter be destroyed,
and who were then or are now on their way to destruction.
Heb. 11:31 and Jam. 2:25.-Rahab is still called “the harlot.” The term
remains as an Epithet. But see under Catachresis.
Antiphrasis; or, Permutation: i.e., A New Name for
the Old Thing
A new and opposite Name for a thing after the original Meaning has
ceased

An-tiph’-ra-sis. Greek, ἀνήφρασις, from ἀντιφράζειν (antiphrazein), to
express by antithesis or negation; from @мт (anti), against, and
φράζειν (phrazein). Hence, φράσις (phrasis), a way of speaking. The
figure is so called, because a word or phrase is used in a sense
opposite to its original and proper signification; the figure is thus one
of change: the name of a thing or subject being changed to the
opposite, in order to emphasize some important fact or circumstance,
as when a court of justice was once called “a court of vengeance.”

It thus partakes of, and is indeed a species of, /rony (α.ν. [Note:
Which see.] ). The difference is that Antiphrasis is used only of single
words or phrases, while /rony is used of connected sentences.
Another difference is that Antiphrasis affects rather the meaning of
words, while /rony affects the application of words.

Hence Antiphrasis is called, by the Latins, PERMUTATIO, or
permutation, because of this change of meaning.
Gen. 3:22.-“Behold, the man is become as one of us”: i.e., he had
become, not necessarily or really “a God,” but what the tempter
promised him; and now he will get the Tempter’s doom and be cast
out from God's presence.
Isa. 44:25.-“That turneth wise men backward”: i.e., those who are
accounted wise by themselves or others. Not those who are truly and
really wise in God's sight. So the word “knowledge” is used in the next
sentence by Antiphrasis.
12" р. ΙΙ. Affecting the Arrangement and Order of Words"
Il. AFFECTING THE ARRANGEMENT AND
ORDER OF WORDS
1. SEPARATE WORDS
Hyperbaton; or, Transposition
The placing of a Word out of its usual order in a Sentence
Hy-per’-ba-ton. Greek, 20е( from 22 (hyper), over, and 5 στ.
(bainein), to step. Hence =)®!'! and Hyperbaton, a stepping over,
transposition.

The figure is so called because the words of a sentence are put
out of their natural and usual grammatical order.

All words are arranged in a sentence according to certain laws,
which have been acquired by usage. These laws are not the same in
all languages, but each language has its own peculiar laws, called
Syntax, which merely means a putting together in order. Even in one
language this order may vary in different stages of its history and
development.

Hyperbaton is a putting together of words in a way contrary to or
different from the usual order. Hence, what is Hyperbaton in one
language may not be Hyperbaton in another.

In English, the arrangement of words in a sentence usually follows
the order of thought. Hence, naturally, the subject (with all that
pertains to it) comes first: i.e., the thing spoken of; then follows the
copula: i.e., the verb, and all words connected with it; and then the
predicate: i.e., something said about the subject, called the object,
with its adjuncts.
In an inflected langnage (like the Greek, for example) it is not so
necessary to keep to the formal arrangement of the words in a
sentence, the grammatical dependence of words being sufficiently
indicated by the inflections. Consequently there is great room for a
variety of arrangements, when a particular word has to be
emphasized.

It is hopeless to attempt to give an adequate idea of the nature
and extent of the beautiful and subtle shades of meaning and thought
produced by these unusual collocation of words called Hyperbaton. So
delicate are they, at times, that it is scarcely possible to reproduce
them in a translation.

In the Greek language, the object usually follows the governing
verb; but it sometimes comes before it. The predicate usually comes
after the object; but sometimes it stands first. The adjective usually
follows the noun which it qualifies; but sometimes it stands before its
noun: etc, etc.

The most emphatic position for these transposed words is at the
beginning of a clause; but sometimes it is at the end; in which case
the word is held back, and kept in suspense, while the attention is kept
up, and the hearer or reader has nothing for it but to listen to the close
for fear of losing the whole. When it is put out of its place, and stands
out at the beginning, it thrusts itself upon our notice, and compels us
to give all our attention, and see what it is that is going to be said
about it.
In the old Hebrew Syntax, the subject usually precedes the
predicate, the adjective the substantive, pronouns the nouns, the
genitive the nominative, and the nominative the verb: e.g., Jdg. 1:7:
“seventy kings thumbs of their hands and feet cut off, were.”

In more modern Hebrew Syntax, the adjective follows the
substantive; pronouns follow nouns; while the genitive follows the
nominative which has a special form called the “construct.”

In Chaldee, the verb is placed after the subject, and the article
after the noun.
It has been said that “proper words in proper places is the true
definition of style.” But an intentional deviation from the ordinary “style”
for the purpose of attracting attention and expressing the emphasis is
the definition of Hyperbaton.

We may illustrate its use in this way. A person has a particular
chair in his room, which he wishes his friends to notice. They continue
to call, but do not notice it. It is in the usual place where chairs ought
to be, and so does not attract any special attention. But one day he
places this chair upon the table. Who can then fail to observe it, the
moment the room is entered?

This is exactly what takes place with words, in the figure
Hyperbaton. Special attention is desired for some particular word.
Placed in its ordinary and usual position, it may not be noticed. But,
put out of its usual order and place at the beginning instead of at the
end of a sentence, it is impossible for the reader not to be arrested by
it.

If we say, for example, “The mystery of godliness is great,” that is
the natural order of the English words. But if we say, “Great is the
mystery of godliness,” we see at once that all the emphasis is to be
placed on the word “great.”

This figure has also been called SYNCHYSIS, Syn-chy-sis:
Greek, [© !, from {Je 55 (synchein), to mix up, which is from К
(sun), together, and =" (chein), to pour. Hence, ' (chysis), a
pouring, and Synchysis, a mixing up, as of words in a sentence.
We now give a few examples:-

Isa. 34:4.-“And the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll.” Here,
(in the Heb.) the word “heavens” is emphasized by being, by
Hyperbaton, put last: “And they shall be rolled together as a scroll-the
heavens.”

Jer. 14:1.-“The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah concerning the
dearth.” Here, by Hyperbaton, it is That which was the Word of the
Lord came, etc.

Jer. 17:3.-‘I will give thy substance and all thy treasures to the
spoiler.” Here, the verb is emphasized by being put last: “All thy
substance and all thy treasures to the spoiler-will | give.”

Mat. 5:3-11.-In these verses, called the “Beatitudes,” the participle is
put out of its usual place, and made to begin the sentences instead of
ending them: thus calling attention to the emphasis placed upon it.
Mat. 7:13.-“Enter ye in at the strait gate.”

Here the adjective is placed before the noun to call attention to its
narrowness. So with the adjectives “wide” and “broad,” which are both
to be emphasized.

Luk. 16:11.-“Who will commit to your trust the true riches.”
The Hyperbaton (in the Greek) shows where the emphasis is to be
placed: “The true riches-who will entrust them to you.”

Joh. 1:1.-Here the subject, “the Word,” being defined by the article
which is prefixed to it, can be placed at the end of two of the clauses:
“In the beginning was the Word, and God the Word was’: i.e., in plain
cold English, “The Word was in the beginning ... and the Word was
God.”

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] preserves the Hyperbaton in the first clause, but
not in the last, because the English idiom will not bear it. But in each
case we are to put the stress on “the Word.”

See under Climax.

Joh. 4:19.-The order of the words is, “Saith to him, the woman, Sir, |
perceive that a prophet art thou”: thus emphasizing both the words
“thou” and “prophet,” which should be greatly emphasized in reading.
Joh. 4:24.-“А Spirit is God.”
The true emphasis is to be placed on the word “Spirit,” through its
being placed (in the Greek) at the beginning of the sentence. In the
ordinary order, it would be placed after the subject. The two words are
transposed to call our attention to this great fact; as being the basis of
the Great Rubric which emphasizes the absolute necessity of our
worship being truly spiritual.

See under Hendiadys.

Joh. 6:60.-“Hard is this saying.”

Here again the predicate is put first, and the object last, in order to
emphasize both.

Joh. 7:4.-“For no one in secret doeth anything and [at the same time]
seeketh for it in public to be.”

Joh. 9:31.-“Now we know that sinners-God does not hear.”

Joh. 17:5.-“And now glorify me, Thou, Father, with Thyself, with the
glory which | had, before the world was, with Thee.” Here, the
mysterious depths of the words are forced upon our attention by the
Hyperbaton.

The force of it is weakened by the literalness of the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
Act. 17:23.-The true emphasis is here brought out by the Hyperbaton:
“For passing through and beholding the objects of your worship, |
found an altar also, on which stood inscribed, ‘To an unknown God.’
What therefore, unknowing, ye reverence, this |-even I, announce to
you.”

Rom. 1:3.-“Concerning His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.” Here, the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] entirely loses the emphasis of the Hyperbaton, by which the
words “Jesus Christ our Lord” in sense follow the words “His Son,” but
are held back in suspense to the very end of the clause.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] restores it, but we give
our own rendering of this difficult passage (verses 1-4):-

“Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, by Divine calling an apostle (see
Ellipsis), separated unto God’s Gospel which He promised in former
times through His prophets in Holy Scriptures: viz., the Gospel
concerning His Son, who was of David’s seed according to the flesh,
but was powerfully (© ™/'='=’) demonstrated to be God’s Son with
respect to His holy spiritual nature, by His resurrection from the dead*
[Note: Or “by a resurrection of dead persons”: viz., that referred to in
Mat. 27:52-53. See under Hysteresis and Heterosis.] (Psa. 2:1-12
Act. 2:1-47), even Jesus Christ our Lord.”
Rom. 5:8.-Here the words are out of the natural order to excite our
attention. The Greek is: “But commends His own love to us-God.”
The nominative is put last, and the verb first, to emphasize both.
Rom. 8:18.-“Not worthy are the sufferings of the present time
[compared with] the coming glory, to be revealed.”

Here, the emphasis is placed on the non-worthiness of the
sufferings, and the nearness of the revelation of the glory.

Rom. 11:13.-“For to you | speak, to you Gentiles, inasmuch as | am
of Gentiles the apostle.”

Here the shades of emphasis can be traced in the unusual order of
the words in which fleshly wisdom can discern only “bad grammar”!
The first and last words are seen to be very emphatic.

Rom. 12:19.-How unusual to commence like this: “Not yourselves
avenging (or, be no self-avengers), beloved, but give place to [Divine]
wrath,” thus emphasizing “yourselves.”

Rom. 14:1.-“Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not for
disputings of doubts”: {6., doubtful disputations, with emphasis on
doubtful:

1Co. 3:9.-“For God’s fellow-workers, God’s husbandry, God’s
building ye.”
The emphasis is on “God’s”; and it is to be noted that it is we who
are fellow-workers with one another; not with God, as though He were
one like ourselves. We are the fellow-workers with one another, and
we belong to God and work for Him. We work, and He it is who giveth
the increase.
1Co. 13:1.-“If with the tongues of men I speak and of angels.”

Eph. 6:8.-“Whatsoever thing each may have done that is good.”

Here the adjective is held over to the last in order to emphasize it.
τι. 1:15; 1Ti. 3:4; 1Ti. 4:9. 2Τἱ. 2:11. Tit. 3:8.-“0 15511911: Faithful
the saying.”

How much more emphatic than the ordinary coldness of the
natural order: “The saying {5 faithful.”
1Ti. 3:16.-“Great is, of godliness, the mystery.”

How wonderful is the emphasis thus placed on the word “great,”
put as it is before the subject, which is kept back and put as the very
last word in the sentence (in the Greek).

See under Synecdoche, Hendiadys, and Synonymia-
1Ti. 6:5.-“Supposing that gain is godliness.”

Here the principal word is put out of its place, at the end, to call our
attention to it. The emphasis is thus put on the word “godliness,”
“Supposing that godliness is gain.”
1Ti. 6:12.-“Keep on struggling the fine good struggle of the Faith, lay
hold on the life eternal, unto which life thou wast called also, and didst
confess the fine confession before many witnesses.”

Here the adjective “fine” (or “good”) is greatly emphasized in each
case.

Heb. 6:16.-“For with men it is the Greater by whom they swear, and of
all dispute they have a decisive settlement the oath.”

Heb. 7:4.-“To whom, even a tenth, Abraham gave out of the spoils,
the patriarch.”

Notice how the subject of the verse is kept back to the last, in
order to call attention to the fact that, if Apraham-the patriarch himself-
gave the tithe, He to whom he gave them must of necessity be
greater, even than Abraham.
Heb. 10:30.-“To me vengeance belongeth, I (even 1) will recompense,
saith the Lord”: emphasising the pronouns very strongly.
1Pe. 2:7.-To you therefore is the preciousness-[unto you] who
believe.” The subject is put last in order to emphasize the fact that the
Lord Jesus is precious only to believers and to none else.
1Pe. 3:21.-The order and emphasis of the Greek is:-

“Which [water]-in the antitype-now saves you also-namely,
baptism: not a putting away of bodily defilement, but an appeal of a
good conscience to God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ”:
i.e., that while it was water which was the instrumentality through
which Noah was brought safely through, it is the Holy Ghost who is
now the antitype of this, which we have through the resurrection of
Christ.

It was often declared that He should thus baptize: “I baptize with
water: but He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.”
1Jn. 2:24.-Here again the peculiarity of the Hyperbaton attracts our
attraction, and causes us to reflect on the words. “Ye, then, what ye
heard from the beginning (or primitively), in you let it abide: if in you
shall have abode what from the beginning ye heard, ye also, in the
Son, and in the Father, shall abide.”

So verse 27: “And you, the anointing, which ye received from Him,
in you abideth; and no need have ye that anyone should teach you:
but, as the same anointing teacheth you concerning all things, and is
true, and is not a lie, and even as it [first] taught you, ye will abide in
Him.”

Rev. 13:8.-“Whose names are not written in the book of life, of the
Lamb slain, from the foundation of the world.”
The last sentence is put by Hyperbaton out of its place, at the end,
so as to call our attention to it. It is a question whether it does not
belong to the writing of the names and not to the slaying of the
Lamb:-“Whose names are not written from the foundation of the world
in the book of life of the Lamb slain.” As in 17:8. Compare Dan. 12:1.
Psa. 69:28 and Isa. 53:7.

Anastrophe; or, Arraignment
The position of One word changed so as to be set over against the
Other
A-nas’-tro-phee. Greek, > (/!)!\=, from ©' = (ana), back again, and Г›
5'' (strephein), to turn, a turning back.

The figure is so-called because one word is turned, or turned back
out of its proper or usual position in a sentence.

Hence it is a kind of Hyperbaton; but affecting only one word,
instead of several words, in a sentence.

It is called also PARALLAGE, Par-al’-la-gee. Greek, ©0\\°>, from
ους ΤΠ] (parallasso), to make things alternate. Hence Parallage
means a deviation, a turning aside, variation. And
SYNCATEGOREMA, syn-cat’-ee-gor-ee-ma, from '” (syn), together
with, and (| ©) an arraignment. Hence the figure is so called
because one word is set over against or arraigned against another.
Reversal would be a good English name for this figure.

The Latins called it TRAJECTIO: i.e., a crossing over, a
transposition or trajection of words. And INVERSIO, a turning about,
an inversion of words.

The word thus put out of its usual place receives great emphasis.

We have many examples in English:-

The Verb before its Noun.
“Burns Marmion’s swarthy cheek like fire.”-Scoit-

Adjective after its Noun.

“He ceased; and death involved him dark around.”-Cowper.

Objective before the Verb.

“Me didst thou constitute a priest of thine.”-Wordsworth

Preposition before the Participle.

“Into what pit thou seest, from what height fallen.”-Milton.

Preposition after the Noun.

“It only stands our lives upon, to use
Our strongest hands.”-Shakespeare-
Noun at end of sentence.
“Ape-born, not God-born, is what the atheists say of-man.”
Deu. 22:1.-“Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ox or his sheep go astray,
and hide thyself from them.”

Here, the negative is put with “see” instead of with “hide,” in order
to emphasize the command, which would otherwise tamely read:-“If
thou shalt see ... thou shalt not hide,” etc. See under Metonymy.

Mic. 6:10.-“Are there yet the treasures of wickedness in the house of
the wicked?” In the Hebrew, the verse begins with the adverb: “Still
are there in the house of the wicked man treasures of wickedness?”
Act. 7:48.-In the English, the negative is joined with the verb, with
which it is to be read: but in the Greek, the negative is put at the
beginning of the clause, and the verb at the end, which greatly
intensifies the force of the word “not.”

“But not the Most High in hand-made temples dwelleth.”

Syllepsis; or, Change in Concord
Grammatical Syllepsis, by which there is a change in the Ideas rather
than in actual words, so that the concord is logical rather than
grammatical

Syl-lep‘-sis. Greek, !.'!, from '' (sun), together with, апа \2"!
(leepsis), a taking.

It is a figure by which one word, or the meaning of one word, is
taken with another; or, when one word is used, and another idea is
meant. When involving addition of words, or sense, it has already
been described in Div. Il.

It is a kind of Enallage, or Heterosis; in that there is an exchange
of genders, of numbers, or of both. But it differs from Enallage, in that
the change takes place rather in the idea than in the actual words.
It is a kind of Zeugma, in that one adjective or verb belonging to
two or more nouns of different genders, persons, or numbers, agrees
with one rather than with another.

Syllepsis therefore depends on a change or disturbance in the
concord of parts of speech; in making a /ogica/ rather than a
grammatical concord.

Joh. 16:13-14.-“When he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you
unto all truth,” etc.

Here, though the word ~ =" ‘ (pneuma), Spirit, is neuter, the word ©
== |! (ekeinos), He, is masculine; agreeing with the Divine Person
rather than with the actual word “Spirit.”

Joh. 21:12.-“And none (sing. [Note: ing. The Singular Number.] ) of
the disciples durst ask him Who art thou? knowing (pl. [Note: The
Plural Number.] ) that it was the Lord.”

The figure points out that not one asked; for all knew.
2Co. 5:19.-“God was in Christ, reconciling the world (sing. [Note: ing.
The Singular Number.] ,) unto himself, not imputing their trespasses
unto them (pl. [Note: The Plural Number-.] ).”

Here, the figure Metonymy, by which the “world” is put for its
inhabitants, is interpreted by the use of the plural, “them.”
Tmesis; or, Mid-cut
A Change by which one Word is cut in two, and another Wordput in
between
Tm??-sis. Greek, | 2 a cutting, from |" (temnein), to cut.

It is a figure by which a compound word or connected phrase is
separated, and the position of its syllables changed, by the
intervention of one or more words.

Each of the syllables thus cut off is a separate and complete word.
Thus in “to us ward,” the word “toward” is, by the figure Tmesis, cut in
two: and the word “us” is put in between the two separated words, “to
us ward.” So also we say “to heaven ward,” or “what condition soever.”

The figure is also called DIACOPE, Di-ac’-o-pee. Greek, μα а
cutting in two.

DIRESIS, D?-??-re-sis. Greek, "(= Г! (diairesis), a dividing
through.

DIASTOLE, Di-as-to-lee. Greek, "'(Г!!=, a separating through.

ECTASIS, Ec’-ta-sis. Greek, 9 |<"), a stretching out.

DIALYSIS, Di-al’-y-sis. Greek, “=. "!, a dissolving or parting
asunder.

DIVISIO, Division.

There is an example of it in Eph. 6:8 : 5 |’ °= (ho ti ean), three
words, which usually go together in this order, are divided: and the last
is put in between the other two, so that it reads “what soever thing,”
instead of “what thing soever.”

Our English Tmesis here better expresses the Greek, than the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] which neglects the Greek Tmesis-

Through not seeing the figure in this passage, there are several
various readings created in order to explain it.

2. Sentences and Phrases
Hysteron-Proteron; or, Last-First
The Second of two things put First
Hys’-te-ron - Prot’-e-ron, τοπ!) | (hysteros), the latter, and ©) !>!
(proteros), the former.

A figure in which the word that should be the latter of two words
comes first.

It is, therefore, a kind of Hyperbaton: where ‘the cart is put before
the horse.’ It occurs in most languages; but it is a question whether in
this sense it occurs in the Bible, as the figure is considered rather a
blemish than an ornament. If it is used, it is certainly for unusual
emphasis.

Php. 3:19 has been cited: “Whose end is destruction, whose God is
their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly
things.”

Here, the “end” is put first: in order that the mind may dwell with
the greater horror on the things which lead to it.
The structure of these verses (18, 19) throws more light on them,
and shows that after the words “many walk” there is a parenthetical
break, which is resumed at the end of verse 19, to show who these
“walkers” are, viz., “the earthly minded.”

а299 “For many are walking

6229 Whom | often told you, and do tell you now-even weeping,
calling them the enemies of the cross of Christ,

b=20 Whose end-destruction; whose god-the belly; and their
glory-in shame.

a2 Such [namely] as are minding earthly things.”

Here, in “a” and “a” we have the walkers; while in “b” we have their
walk, and in “b” their end. Hence their walk ends in destruction, their
worship ends in their belly, and their glory ends in shame.

Heb. 3:8.-“Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of
temptation in the wilderness.”

The provocation of God followed the temptation in the wilderness;
but is here put first to mark out the special temptation referred to.

Heb. 4:2.-“For unto us was the Gospel preached, as well as unto
them.” Here, the order of time is inverted, to agree with the order of
thought, and for emphasis.

But, as we have said, it is a question whether we have any real
examples of this figure in the Bible.
Hysterologia; or, the First, Last
The First of two things put Last: or, the opposite of Hysteron-Proteron

Hys’-ter-o-log’-i-a. Greek, ή τς from 2!!>)|! (hysteros), last, and
Le | (logos), speech, discourse.

A figure by which that which is put last, ought, according to the
usual order, to come first.

It is the opposite of Hysteron-Proteron; except that it refers toa
transposition of connected events, rather than of words.

It differs from Hysteresis (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).
Gen. 10:1-32 and xi.-In chapter 10. the dispersion of the nations is
put before the cause of it, which is recorded in chap. 11.
Gen. 12:1.-Here, the call of Abraham is put, by Hysterologia, after the
obedience to it (or to a previous call) in chap. 11:31, 32.

Abraham and Terah came out of Haran in consequence of this call;
which is not recorded till afterward.

The figure thus emphasizes the fact that God had called them out
of “Ur of the Chaldees’” (see chap. 15:7) “into a land that | will show
thee” (chap. 12:1): while the history shows that the obedience, from
some cause, was not complete, for “they came unto Haran, and dwelt
there.” The Divine comment in Act. 7:2-4 reveals the secret to us:
“From thence (i.e., from Haran) when his father was dead, he
removed him into this land,” showing that Terah, his father, was the
hindrance to Abram’s complete obedience.

The figure thus calls attention to the fact that in his day, as well as
in our own, family ties often hinder full obedience to God.

The two calls are still further marked by the contrasted
expressions in chaps. 11:31 and 12:5.

In chap. 11:31, we read: “They went forth ... from Ur of the
Chaldees, to go into the land Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and
dwelt there.”

In chap. 12:5, we read, as to Haran, that “they went forth to go into
the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.”

Gen. 30:22-24.-The birth of Joseph is described by Hysterologia. For
it happened, really, after the birth Of the sixth son of Jacob (Naphtali)
and during the first seven years of his servitude. It was after the birth
of Joseph that Jacob wished to go away and leave Laban. In the first
seven years were born Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Dan, Naphtali,
and Joseph. Then he served seven more years (chap. 31:41), and in
these were born Gad, Asher, Issachar, Zebulun, and Dinah.
So Joseph's birth, which took place after Naphtali’s, is recorded,
by Hysterologia: after Dinah’s.

Gen. 38:1-30 -The history of Judah in this chapter is put by
Hysterologia, for the greater part of it took place before the selling of
Joseph, which is recorded in chap. 37.

Jdg. 20:1-48; Jdg. 21:1-25.-These chapters describe the Benjamite
war; which must have taken place many years before; indeed soon
after Joshua’s death, though recorded here. For Phinehas, the
grandson of Aaron, was high priest (chap. 20:28): and Jonathan, the
grandson of Moses, was the first idolatrous priest to the tribe of Dan!*
[Note: See pamphlet on The Massorah, by the same author and
publisher.]

Moreover, Jebus or Jerusalem was still in the hands of strangers
(chap. 19:10-12), whereas chap. 1:8, 21 describes its capture and
firing by the tribe of Judah.
1Sa. 16:1-23 -xviii.-Here, four events in the history of Saul and David
are transposed, by Hysterologia, in order to bring together certain
facts relating to each; and especially to the Spirit of God in relation to
each. In chap. 16:1-13, David is anointed, and the Spirit of God comes
upon him. Then, in order to contrast the Spirit of the Lord departing
from Saul, a /ater fact is brought forward here (chap. 16:14-23), which,
in the history, really follows chap. 18:9. So that chaps. 17-18:9 record
an earlier event in David’s life, which is brought in here parenthetically,
describing one of the illustrations of chap. 14:52, that, when Saul saw
any strong man or any valiant man, he took him unto him. Chaps.
17-18:9 go on to give an instance of this with David, and tell how Saul
thus found David. Then (after chap. 18:9) we have to go back again to
prior events (recorded in chap. 16:14-23); while, in chap. 18:10-30, we
have further facts concerning Saul’s “evil spirit” and other events of
David's life.

The whole section is beautifully constructed; and the parentheses
between the different members are clearly seen: each member being
parenthetical to the other two, between which it is placed:-

A@ 16:1-13. DAVID anointed. The Spirit of the Lord comes upon

him.
B 14-23. SAUL rejected. The Spirit of the Lord departs from
Saul, and an evil spirit troubles him.

A™ 17:1-18:9. DAVID. An earlier incident in his life.

Bo 10-30. SAUL. The Spirit departed, and evil spirit troubling
him.

So that, while Sau/ and David alternate, we see why the special
arrangement is made; so as to bring out into contrast the facts
recorded in each pair of corresponding members, which are not
recorded in their historical order, but in the order of the spiritual
instruction which is to be conveyed. The historical order is obtained by
reading on from A to A (treating B as being in a parenthesis); and then
from B to B (treating A as though it were in a parenthesis); while the
logical sequence of the spiritual order is obtained by reading straight
on, as the history is written in the Text.

2Sa. 23:1-39; 2Sa. 24:1-25.-The latter chapter is put after chapters 22
and 23, which contain David’s “last song” and “last words,” while the
events really follow chap. 21. The “song” and the “words” follow more
appropriately, immediately after the record of David’s mighty acts,
instead of after David's sin in numbering the People.

Isa. 38:21-22.-Here, the sign which Hezekiah had asked for, in verse
22, is described in verse 21, beautifully emphasizing the Divine over-
ruling of the history.

Amo. 6:2.-The cities are put according to logical emphasis, rather
than geographical sequence.
Mat. 27:52-53.-Here, the events which took place later, are recorded
in their consequential order, rather than in the actual historical order.

At the moment when the Lord Jesus “yielded up His Spirit ... the
earth was shaken, and the rocks were rent, and the tombs were
opened [and now comes, (by Hysterologia) “many bodies of the saints
who had fallen asleep, arose, and, coming forth out of the tombs after
His resurrection, entered into the holy city, and appeared privately*
[Note: This seems to be the meaning of “Μιισηςκθὔη (emphanizein),
see its only other occurpevzes: НеВ_9:24; НеВ_11:14.] to many]. Now the
centurion, and those with him, keeping guard over Jesus-seeing the
earthquake, and the things that were taking place-feared greatly,
saying, ‘Truly, God’s Son this Man was.’ ”

It is a question whether it be not this which is referred to in Rom.
1:4 : where the Lord Jesus is said to have been marked out as “God’s
Son ... as the result of raising (or rising) again of dead persons.” For it
is not ΙΙ, from among the dead, but simply =), of dead
people. That He was so marked out is described in the history by the
exclamation of the Centurion. In both cases we have «Ισ (without
articles), “God’s Son.”

Some have suggested that we have this figure in the record of the
temptation (Luk. 4:5; Luk. 4:9), where the temptation which seems to
come first in order of events is put last. Compare Mat. 4:5; Mat. 4:8.
Rev. 12:1-17 -In this chapter, we have the prophetic record of events,
which shall take place before Chapter 6, and lead up to what is
recorded in chapters 6-11.

Chapters 6-11. give the exoteric view of the future history, which
ends with the judgment (chap. 11:18). Chap. 11:18 therefore brings us
parallel to chap. 20. The Beast and false prophet are upon the earth
during this period, and their actions are seen in chaps. 9 and 11,
though they are not named, and their actual coming is not described,
till chap. 13.

But chapter 12 gives the esoteric view of the same period, and
takes us back to a point prior to chap. 6, and shows us the causes
which shall lead to the rising up of the Beast and the false prophet.

First, the war takes place in heaven, and the Devil is cast out into
the earth.

Then “he” stands upon the sand of the sea (chap. 13:1, R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] ); and John sees these two awful beings
coming up, the one from the sea and the other from the earth. There is
no record of their doings, except what is recorded in chaps. 6-11, and
in 13.

See further under Ellipsis.
Hysteresis; or, Subsequent Narration
A subsequent Narration of prior Events
Hys’-ter-ee-sis. Greek, ο), ποπ (hystere?), to come later.
Hence, a coming after or later-

This is a special form of Hysterologia, and does not refer to
connected records or events, but gives, long afterwards, further details
of some long prior events; or, gives events never before recorded.

When a record, written much later, gives supplemental or new
particulars, quite disconnected from the original historical record, it is
called Hysteresis: and hence has been called

HISTORICAL HYSTERESIS,
by which the Holy Spirit, in later and subsequent Scriptures, adds
supplementary details which were not given in the history itself; and
sometimes even historical facts, of which no mention had before been
made.
Man often does, and is allowed to do, this in human literature: but
God may not! and so man cavils at this beautiful figure, and sees in it
only “discrepancy”; instead of delighting in these subsequent
supplementary facts thus revealed to us by the Holy Spirit, and such
as none but He could give.

Gen. 31:7-8.-Jacob mentions later, certain facts in his history which
had taken place before.

1Sa. 12:12.-A prior event is here recorded, not mentioned in the
earlier narration.

1Sa. 22:9-16.-Certain supplementary details are given here which are
not recorded in the account as narrated in chap. 21:1-9.

Psa. 105:18.-“Whose feet they hurt with fetters.” This, by Hysteresis,
is mentioned here, though not recorded in the history of Joseph in
Genesis.

Hos. 12:3-5 gives further particulars supplementing the history in Gen.
32:24, etc.; 28:12-19, and 35:9-15.

Amo. 1:1.-A particular earthquake is here mentioned, of which no
historical record is given. It is possibly the earthquake mentioned in
Zec. 14:5. Amos is said to have prophesied “in the days of Uzziah ...
and Jeroboam”; and it is added, “two years before the earthquake.”
Now, in Zechariah, we have no mention of Jeroboam. Hence it is very
possible that, by the time the earthquake took place, he was dead.
How Amos came to be “among the herdmen from Tekoa’; or, why
these men migrated, as it may seem, into Israelite territory, we are not
told. But if we take the mysterious “it,”* [Note: Which is masc. in all the
eight occurrences: and always followed by the great pause.] which
the Lord, by Amos, says, He will not “avert,” to be this very
earthquake, we avoid a very puzzling Ellipsis, and shall very likely be
correct.
Amo. 2:1.-Moab is here said to have “burned the bones of the king of
Edom into lime,” a fact of which we have no historical mention. Mesha,
king of Moab, evidently was a cruel man. In his superstitions he
offered his own son upon the wall, and turned the tide of battle.

See further information concerning this in the history of The
Moabite Stone.
Amo. 5:25-26.-Here we learn the names of certain of the gods which
the Children of Israel worshipped in the wilderness. See also Eze.
20:6-7; Eze. 20:18; Eze. 20:22, etc.
Zec. 14:5.-See above under Amo. 1:1.
Mat. 2:23.-“And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth: that it
might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be
called a Nazarene.”

Through missing this Hysteresis, the commentators have created
a difficulty of their own.

First, they cannot find such a prophecy in any of the prophets.

Then, they try and make a connection between neizer, a branch,
and Nazarene; and, as there is none, the difficulty is only increased.

Even if the connection could be established, the difficulty would not
be removed: for it says “prophets” (p/ura/), and the word neizer is used
of Christ in only one prophet, Isaiah. So the difficulty is further
increased.

But there is really no difficulty at all. It is absolutely created. It is
assumed from the outset that it says “which was written.” But it does
not say so! It says “which was SPOKEN.” The fact is, some
prophecies were written down and never spoken; some were both
written and spoken; while others were spoken and never written. This
is one of the latter class: and there is all the difference in the world
between 132 \\ (to rheethen), which was spoken, and ο ! (ло
gegraptai), which standeth written!
Thus, this beautiful Hysteresis reveals to us the historical fact that
several prophets had declared by the Holy Spirit that the Messiah
should be called a Nazarene. But for this Hysteresis we should never
have known it.

Mat. 23:35-36.-“That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed
upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of
Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and
the altar.” etc.

Now, from failing to see the historical Hysteresis here, it has been
hastily assumed that the reference is to 2Ch. 24:20-21, where we
read, “The Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the
priest ... And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones
at the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the Lord.”

By this inaccurate reference, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of
God, is charged with making a serious mistake.

But note that when the Lord says that Zachariah was “the son of
Barachias,” He could not possibly have been speaking of “the son of
Jehoiada” as the same man.

If He began with Abel, the first martyr, it is not probable He would
end with a murder which took place 870 years before he spoke the
words, when there were many more during those 870 years.

How much more probable that he referred to Zechariah the (last
but one) prophet (and the one of whom he is speaking, verse 31), who
died some 500 years before the Lord spoke the words? Moreover, he
is expressly called “the son of Berechiah” in Zec. 1:1; Zec. 1:7.

It is remarkable that there was another Zechariah, the son of
Baruch, who was martyred some 36 years afterward (a.d. 69),
immediately before the destruction of Jerusalem, as recorded by
Josephus (Wars, iv. 5, 4).

Mat. 27:9-10.-See under Gnome.

Act. 9:1-43; xxii.; xxvi.-In the three accounts of the conversion of
Saul, we have supplementary facts, disconnected from the historical
event.

2Ti. 3:8.-“Jannes and Jambres” are named as two of the Egyptian
wise men; whose names are not given in Exodus, but are supplied
here by the Holy Spirit.

Heb. 9:19.-The sprinkling of the book is supplementary information
which is not given in Exo. 24:1-18

Heb. 11:21.-Here we have an additional fact, which at once explains
and amplifies Gen. 48:12, and is not in discrepancy with Gen. 47:31,
as is commonly supposed.

We must give the whole of this verse, because of the controversies
which have raged around it: “By faith, Jacob, when he was a dying,
Messed both the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, /eaning upon the
top of his staff.”

The marginal reference in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] is Gen. 47:31; but this,
though followed by every one, is certainly not correct. The
circumstance in Heb. 11:21 is Jacob’s blessing of the sons of Joseph,
which is set in company with Isaac’s blessing of his own sons. The
two together giving the beautiful lesson that Isaac’s blessing was
given contrary to the will of the flesh (i.e., his own will), while Jacob's
blessing was given contrary to the will of man (i.e., Joseph’s will)
(Heb. 11:20-21).

It is clear, therefore, that the whole emphasis of the reference is to
the occasion of the blessing: of which there is not a word in Gen.
47:31, and to which it does not refer.

In Gen. 47:31, Jacob was causing Joseph to swear that he would
bury him not in Egypt, but in the land of Canaan, and “Israel bowed
himself upon the bed,s head.”
But it was “after these things” (Gen. 48:1), that the blessing of
Joseph and his sons took place. And, then, we have, in chap. 48:12,
the worship of Jacob who “bowed himself with his face to the earth.”
Jacob must, therefore, have been in a sitting posture; for, in verse 2,
we read that when they told him that Joseph was approaching, “Israel
strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed”; and, from verse 12,
when he embraced Ephraim and Manasseh, he took them “between
his knees.” It was then, we gather that, in the blessing of his own sons
(for chaps. 48 and 49 are continuous), that he “leaned on the top of
his staff.” And this inspired addition to the information is given us in
Heb. 11:21, to enhance and emphasize his faith, and to indicate
Israel's extreme infirmity, for it was his last dying act (chap. 49:33).

There is no necessity, therefore, for us to discuss the question of
the various reading involved in the Hebrew ica (mittah), the bed, and
the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] and Syriac
rendering, the staff, which would require the Hebrew to be pointed
iéa (matteh). Had the word been used in the Hebrew of Gen.
48:1-22, the true pointing would have been there decided.*|Note: Had
a Staff been intended in Gen. 47:31, it would probably have been
22 (makkail), as in chaps, 30:37; 32:10, etc.] But the point is
decided for us in Heb. 11:21; which clearly states that it was his “staff”
that Israel leaned upon while worshipping God and blessing “by faith”
the sons of Joseph. We must, however, point out “the incalculable
quantity of idolatrous nonsense,” to use the words of Dean Alford (in
loco), which (he says) “has been written on these words by Roman
Catholic commentators, taking as their starting point the rendering of
the Vulgate: et adoravit fastigium virgae ejus [and worshipped the top
of his staff], and thence deriving an argument for the worship of
images”! This corruption of the Vulgate is perpetuated in all the
Romish translations of it; and all therefore come under the Dean’s
vigorous condemnation.

Heb. 12:21 gives a particular which we do not find recorded in Exo.
19:1-25 and xx.

Jam. 5:17.-The earnest prayer of Elijah is not recorded in 1Ki. 17:1.
Jud. 1:9 mentions by the Holy Spirit the contention of Satan about the
body of Moses; and, in verse 14, some words of a prophecy of Enoch.
Trading on this reference, men have forged “the book of Enoch”
evolving its fancies and trivialities out of this historical Hysteresis.
Simultaneum; or, Insertion
A parenthetic Insertion between the record of two simultaneous
Events
Si’-mul-ta’-ne-um. Latin, from simul, at the same time, together.

This figure is used when, in a description of events, properly
belonging to the same time, one is changed and put out of its
historical place, and put in between two others, which is thus divided
so as to take us by surprise.

It is, therefore, a kind of historical parenthesis, or logical Tmesis
(α.ν. [Note: Which зее.] ).

Mar. 15:12-14.-Where Pilate’s words (verses 12, 14) are interrupted
by the shouts of the People (verse 13). The events took place literally
in this order: but, instead of describing the two events separately,
Pilate’s words and the People’s are described at one and the same
time.

Rev. 16:13-16.-Here the description (14, 16) of the work of the three
unclean spirits in gathering together the kings of the earth to
Armageddon is interrupted by verse 15; which is an injunction
specially referring to that same time, and is therefore introduced there,
by Simultaneum, for the sake of emphasis.
Antithesis; or, Contrast
A setting of one Phrase in Contrast with another
An-tith’-e-sis. Greek, 2 |! =1T!, from © | (anti), against, and ‘ Г!
(thesis), a setting, from |. (tithenai), to set or place.

It is a figure by which two thoughts, ideas, or phrases, are set over
one against the other, in order to make the contrast more striking, and
thus to emphasize it.* [Note: When this consists of words rather than
of sentences, it is called Epanodos, and Antimetabole (q.v.).]

The two parts so placed are hence called in Greek antitheta, and
in Latin opposita and contraposita. For example:

“When our vices leave us, we flatter ourselves we leave them.”

“Curved is the line of beauty,
Straight is the line of duty.”

“The prodigal robs his heir, the miser robs himself.”

“God demands man’s homage; man offers Him his
patronage.”t [Note: Dr. Robert Anderson in The Silence of God.]

Man often misuses this figure, for the mere fancy of balancing
sentences; and thus often falsely exaggerates a contrast which lies
more in the words than in the thoughts. When this is the case it is
called Antimetabole, Parison, Annominatio, etc. (q.v. [Note: Which
see] ).
It is called also CONTENTIO: i.e., comparison, or contrast.

When this contrast is made by affirmatives and negatives, it is
called Enantiosis, see below.

The Book of Proverbs so abounds in such Antitheses that we have
not given any examples from it.
Isa. 1:21.-Of Jerusalem it is said “Righteousness lodged in it; but now
murderers [lodge in if].
Isa. 59:9.-

“We wait for the light, but behold obscurity;
For brightness, but we walk in darkness.”

Isa. 65:13-14.-Where we have many beautiful Antitheses. See also
under Symploce.
Lam. 1:1.-“How doth the city sit solitary that was full of people!”
Luk. 2:14.-“Glory in the highest to God, and on earth peace.” And
then, after these two Antitheta, a third fact is stated as resulting from
them when coming together:-“Good will toward men.”* [Note: Is it not
clear that ciéUs (eudokia) refers to Divine complacency, and that we
find the explanation in the ὁ οθ.ὴ (eudokeesa) of Mat. 3:17; Mat.
12:18; Mat. 17:5. Mar. 1:11. Luk. 3:22. 2Pe. 1:7? With these, contrast
God?s side (Heb. 10:6; Heb. 10:8; Heb. 10:38); and on man?s side (2
Theas. 2:12. How scholars can tolerate the Revisers? reading ?
0923232323 (eudokias) is a marvel. Can a parellel be produced?]

See under Ellipsis:
Rom. 5:18.-“Therefore as through one offence judgment came upon
all men to condemnation, even so too, through the righteous act ("П 0
‹ поё " {1 ) of one, the free gift came upon all men unto а
justifying ("1"), spoken only of God's activity in justifying us) of life”
(or, a life-long justifying).t [Note: See articles on Romans in Things to
Come, Vol. V.]
Rom. 5:19.-“For as by one man’s disobedient act many were made
sinners, so by the obedient act of one (i.e., His death) shall many be
made righteous.”

See also Paronomasia and Paregmenon.
Rom. 6:7-8.-“For he that died, has been justified from sin. Now, if we
died with Christ, we believe that we shall live also with him.”
Rom. 8:5.-“For they that are (or live) after (or according to) flesh (the
Old nature) do mind the things of the flesh; but they that are (or live)
after (according to) spirit (the New nature) [do mina] the things of the
spirit”: i.e., the things that belong to the New nature. See under
Metonymy.
Rom. 8:13.-“For if ye live according to flesh, ye shall die: but if ye
through spirit (the New nature) do mortify the deeds of the body ({6.,
by reckoning that it died with Christ, Rom. 6:11), ye will live.”
Rom. 15:12.-“There shall be a root of Jesse, and he that shall rise
[and raise His banner] to reign over the Gentiles; in him shall the
Gentiles trust.” The reference is to Isa. 11:10 : where ai (neys), a
banner, which is raised aloft, is put in contrast with the “roof” which is
the lowest point. So Messiah rises from the lowest to the highest.
2Co. 4:17-18 contains several beautiful Antitheses.
2Co. 6:8-10 contains a series of beautiful Antitheses.
In 2Co. 6:4-5 -, we have a seven-fold passive experience:-

patience,

afflictions,

necessities,

distresses,

stripes,

imprisonments,

tumults

In 20ο. 6:5-6-, we have a seven-fold self-denial:

labours,

watchings,

fastings,

pureness,
knowledge,

longsuffering.

kindness.

In 20ο. 6:6; 20ο. 6:8 -, we have a seven-fold means to елаиге:-

the Holy Ghost,

love unfeigned,

the word of truth,

the power of God,

the armour of righteousness,

honour and dishonour,

evil report and good report.

In 2Co. 6:8-10, we have a seven-fold result in the following

Antitheses:—

deceivers, and yet true;

unknown, yet well-known;

dying, yet living;

chastened, yet not killed;

sorrowful, yet alway rejoicing;

poor, yet enriching others;

having nothing, yet possessing all things.
Php. 3:7.-“But what things were gain to me, those | counted loss for
Christ.”

Note that, by Antithesis, our attention is called to the fact that Paul
is here speaking, by the Spirit, of his “gains,” not of his sins. Of his
gains, as a man and an Israelite; which included the hope of
resurrection as well as righteousness, of course: but he was willing to
give them all up for that righteousness which he had in Christ, and for
that “out-rising from among the dead,” which he should have at
Christ's appearing.

He does not, in verse 11, speak of something which he could attain
to as a Christian more than other Christians; but he is contrasting his
“gains,” as a Jew, and putting them in Antithesis with his greater gains
as a Christian.
2Pe. 2:19.-“While they promise them (i.e. their dupes) liberty, they
themselves are the servants of corruption.”

Enantiosis; or, contraries
Affirmation or Negation by Contraries
E-nan-ti-o??-sis. Greek, 211 from ©' | | (enantios), opposite.
The figure Antithesis is called Enantiosis when the contrast is
expressed by affirmatives and negatives. What is stated affirmatively
is meant negatively, or vice versa. When it is stated both ways, it is a
kind of Pleonasm (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). The difference being that
Pleonasm refers to any statement, while Enantiosis refers to
affirmation by contraries.

Psa. 1:1.-We have here a beautiful series of affirmation by contraries.
Isa. 45:22.-“I am God, and there is none else.”

Luk. 7:44-46.-The difference between reality and formality is
beautifully shown by a series of contrasts which are affirmatives by
contraries.

Rom. 8:15.-“For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to
fear; but ye have received the spirit of adoption (or a sonship-spirit),
whereby we cry, “Abba, Father.”

Php. 3:9.-“And be found in him (Christ), not having mine own
righteousness, which is of the law, but that [righteousness] which is
through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith.”
See under Synecdoche
Anacoluthon; or, Non-sequence
A breaking off the sequence of Thought
An?-a-co-lu??-thon. Greek, @(L'/\, from ° or, negative, and © |,
| (akolouthos), following: i.e., not following, want of sequence or
connection in a sentence, the latter part of which does not follow on or
correspond with the former part.
This figure is so-called, because the construction with which a
proposition begins is abandoned; and, either for the sake of
perspicuity, emphasis, or elegance, the sentence proceeds in a
manner, different from that in which it set out.

Human writings of deep thought or feeling or argument frequently
have the figure Anacoluthon, which in these cases is mere irregularity
attributable to inadvertence, arising from the negligence or
carelessness of the writer.

But, in the case of the Scriptures, where the Holy Spirit is the
Author, and all is perfect, the figure not only imparts grace, but
strength and force to the language, and is intended to catch and fix
the attention of the reader. In this case, of course, what is abandoned
is not further necessary. It has served its purpose in arresting, and so
the argument passes on to that to which the attention is to be given.

1. Sometimes the accusative stands alone at the beginning of a
sentence
This is not an “accusative absolute,” but is to be rendered “as for” or
“as to.”
Luk. 21:6.-Here, the Lord says: “These things which ye behold”: and
then He turns off, and says: “There will come days.” So that we must
supply the words “As to” these things, etc.

Act. 10:36.-Here, again, the sentence begins with the accusative:
“The word which He sent unto the children of Israel.” Some MSS., not
understanding the Anacoluthon, omit the relative pronoun “which.” But
the sense is “As touching the word which He hath sent,” etc. Or it may
depend on ©" =, ye know, in the next verse: “Ye know the word
which He sent,” etc.

Rom. 8:3.-“For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through
the flesh.” Here, the argument breaks off to speak of what God has
done: “God (by sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and
as an offering for sin) did: namely, “He condemned sin in the flesh in
order that the righteous-requirement (‘| “, dikai?ma) of the Law
might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to flesh (i.e., the Old
nature), but according to spirit ({:6., the New nature).”

The figure requires the conclusion-this thing was impossible for the
Law to do, because it was weak through the flesh: i.e., man, owing to
the corruption of his nature, could not keep the Law; and the Law was
powerless, because it could neither pardon the trangressor, nor alter
his nature. This defect was overcome by God, Who condemned sin in
the death of His Son (who was the sin-offering personified). His
People, therefore, having died with Him, are discharged from the
claims of the Law; and, being now “in Christ,” fulfil in Him all its
righteous requirements.
2. Sometimes the leading proposition is interrupted by a
parenthesis, and, when the subject is resumed, the grammatical
connection is changed
Joh. 6:22-24.

Gal. 2:6-7.

3. Sometimes the construction suddenly changes (without a
paten. thesis) by a change of persons; or, from participles to
finite verbs; or, from singular to plural, and vice versa
Mar. 6:11.-“And whosoever shall not receive you ... shake off the dust

of your feet against them.”
Here, the Anacoluthon is seen only when we take the Critical Text
approved by T. [Note: . Tischendorf and his critical Greek Text.] Tr.
[Note: r. Tregelles and his critical Greek Text.] A. [Note: . Alford and
his critical Greek Text.] WH. [Note: H. Westcott and Hort, and their
critical Greek Text.] ‚ and Ι.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
viz., 1 |\9\) (hos an topos), whatsoever place (singular), instead of ©

2 (hosoi an) whosoever or as many as (plural). So that the
Anacoluthon is: “And whatsoever place (sing. [Note: ing. The Singular
Number-.] ) will not receive you ... shake off the dust of your feet
against them.”

Luk. 11:11.-“From which of you, the father, shall his son ask bread?
Will he give him a stone?”

Here the plural “you” is broken off for the singular “he.”
1Со. 7:13.-“And the woman which hath an husband that believeth
not, and if he be pleased to dwell with her,” etc.

Here the break is from the feminine to the masculine.
2Co. 5:6; 2Co. 5:8.-Here the change is from participles to finite verbs:

“Being confident then always, and conscious that being at home
[here] in the body, we are from home, away from the Lord (for by faith
we are walking, not by sight). We are confident, however, and are
content rather to be from home [here] out of the body, and to be at
home with the Lord [there].”
These words are usually misquoted “absent from the body, present
with the Lord,” as though it meant that the moment we are absent from
the body we are present with the Lord. But this is exactly what it does
not say: and the Anacoluthon calls our attention to this.

The whole subject is resurrection, starting from 4:14. Our two
bodies are contrasted in 5:1-5: viz.: “the earthly house of this
tabernacle (i.e., this mortal body)’ is contrasted with “our 9 |=)
(oikeeteerion), our spiritual or resurrection body” (see Jud. 1:6): viz.:
“our house which is from heaven,” the future body of glory being called
a “house,” as compared with the present body in which we groan,
which is called a “tabernacle” or tent.

The argument is that, while we are in this “tabernacle” we cannot
have that “house”; and that while we are in this tent we are away from
our real eternal home, which is with the Lord.

There is no thought (here or elsewhere) of our being at home, or
“with the Lord,” apart from resurrection and our resurrection bodies.
Gal. 6:1.-“Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are
spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering
thyself, lest thou also be tempted.”

Here the abrupt transition from the plural to the singular, which is a
kind of Enallage (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), makes the general precept
applicable to each individual, in order to emphasize the absolute
necessity of the “spirit of meekness’” which is enjoined.
The figure calls our attention also to the fact that restoration is the
object, and not judgment. Experience would lead us to believe that the
text read: “Ye which are spiritual judge such an one in the spirit of
bitterness and harshness, not considering thyself!” Hence the use of
this figure to arrest our attention, and correct our error.

Eph. 1:20.-“Having raised him ... he set him.”
Col. 1:26.-“The secret which had been lying hid from the ages and
from the generations, but lately was made manifest to his Saints.”

Other examples may be found, e.g.:-

Change from first person to the second: Gal. 3:25-26; Gal. 4:5-6;
Gal. 4:20.

Change from second person to the first: Eph. 2:2-3; Eph. 2:13-14;
Eph. 4:31-32; Eph. 5:2 (textual reading). Col. 1:10-13; Col. 3:3-4. 1Th.
5:5.
Change from second person plural to singular: Rom. 12:16-20.
1Co. 4:6-7. Gal. 4:6-7.

Change from third person to second: Jam. 2:16.
4. Sometimes the construction is broken off altogether, andis not

completed at all

Mar. 11:32.-“But if we shall say, Of men;-they feared the people.”

Here, the reasonings of the rulers are broken off, and the sense
must be supplied by Ellipsis (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]).
Rom. 5:12.-This is usually given as an example of what appears to be
an Anacoluthon; because the sense seems broken off at the end of
verse 12: but the structure of the passage shows us the connection,
and where the sense or argument is resumed. Many suppose that this
is verse 15; but the Correspondence of subjects shows that it must be
verse 18.

The section to which verse 12 belongs is that from verse 12 to 21,
and is as follows:-

The structure of Rom. 5:12-21.
A а220 12. By one man, sin: then, death upon all.
Ρ: 13. Sin not imputed where no Law exists.
20 14. The reign of death.
Bo 15. Not as the offence, so the gracious gift.
Bo 16, 17. Not as by one person, so the gift.

A ассо 18, 19. By one man’s offence, all men under
condemnation; by one man’s disobedient act the many were
constituted sinners; and the counterpart.

6°29 20. The offence abounded when Law came-and the
counterpart.
029 21. The reign of sin-and the counterpart.

Here, we see that verse 12 corresponds with verses 18, 19, and
consequently all between (viz., verses 13-17) is practically in a
parenthesis. Moreover, note that the three members of A are stated
with their counterparts, and are thus distinguished from the three in A.
[Note: . Alford and his critical Greek Text.]
1Ti. 1:3-4.-Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] supplies the sense by adding “so do.”
The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] adds “so do / now.”

5. Sometimes the change consists of a sudden transition from
the indirect to the direct form of speech
Mar. 6:9.-“But being shod with sandals; and put not on two coats.
Luk. 5:14.-“Не charged him to tell no man, but go and show thyself,”
etc.
This may be explained by the Ellipsis of the verb “say,” “but [he

said] go and show thyself,” etc.
Joh. 5:44.-“How can ye believe, receiving honour one from another?
and the honour that is only from God, ye seek not.”
Act. 1:4.-“Wait for the Father’s promise which ye heard of me.” The
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] treat this
as Ellipsis, supplying the words “which [saith or said he] ye have
heard of me.”
Act. 17:3.-“Opening and alleging, that Christ must needs have
suffered and have risen from among the dead, and that this is the
Christ whom I announce to you.” The R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] (and A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin) treat this as Ellipsis, “whom
[said he] | preach,” etc.

6. Sometimes the change is from the direct form, which passes
into the indirect
Joh. 13:29.-“Buy those things that we have need of against the feast;
or, that he should give something to the poor.”
Act. 14:22.- “Establishing the souls of the disciples, exhorting them
to continue in the faith, and that through many tribulations must we
enter into the Kingdom of God.”
See under Ellipsis-
Act. 23:23.-“Get ready two hundred soldiers that they may go to
Crsarea.” The natural sequence would have been “and go.”
7. Sometimes two equivalent constructions are united in the
same proposition
It is scarcely necessary to present these in full. The student can
readily search them out for himself.

See Mar. 6:7; Mar. 12:38. Rom. 12:4. 1Co. 14:5. Eph. 5:27; Eph.
5:33.

And in the Old Testament the following may be noticed:-

Gen. 35:3. Jos. 23:16. Jdg. 16:24. Neh. 10:30.
13" р. ΙΙΙ. Affecting the Application of Words"

Il. AFFECTING THE APPLICATION OF
WORDS

We now come to the last class of the three great divisions of figurative
language, viz., figures which involve the Application of words rather
than their Meaning or Order.
These we propose to consider under those that have to do with
change; not that there is any real or absolute change; but because
there is a deviation or change from the literal, or from the more
ordinary and usual application of words. This change is brought about
and prompted by some internal action of the mind, which seeks to
impress its intensity of feeling upon others. The meaning of the words
themselves continues to be literal: the figure lies in the application of
the words. This application arises from some actual resemblance
between the words, or between two or more mental things which are
before the mind.

When the literal application of the words is contrary to ordinary
plain human experience, or to the nature of the things themselves,
then we are compelled to regard the application as figurative, though
the words themselves still retain their literal meaning; otherwise, the
application would lose all its force and all its point.

The first three important figures in this class should be studied
together: viz.: Simile (comparison by Resemblance), Metaphor
(comparison by Representation), and Hypocatastasis (comparison by
Implication), because they are like three degrees of comparison in the
emphasis conveyed by the inter-relation of words апа their
application. They are the positive, comparative, and superlative
degrees of relation between words and thoughts.

In conforming to the order in which we are presenting these
Figures of language, we lose much that would elucidate and bring out
the beauties of these three. They would each gain in force and
emphasis if we were to combine them in one chapter and under one
head.

Even if we could present the passages out of the order of the
books of the Bible, one could be made to lead on and up to another,
so as to enhance the general effect and force of the subject.

But we proceed on the lines we have laid down, and consider the
Application of words:

1. As to Sense
Simile; or, Resemblance
A Declaration that one Thing resembles another; or, Comparison by
Resemblance
Sim’-i-le. This is the Latin name of the figure; from similis, like, similar,
resembling closely, or in many respects.

This figure has no corresponding Greek name. Indeed it can
hardly be called a figure, or an unusual form of expression, seeing it is
quite literal, and one of the commonest forms of expression in use. It
is a cold, clear, plain statement as to a resemblance between words
and things. The whole application of the figure lies in this
Resemblance, and not in Representation, as in Metonymy; or in
Implication, as in Hypocatastasis; or, in Association, as in
Synecdoche.

Accordingly, when this resemblance is not apparent, or is counter
to our ordinary perception of things, it jars upon the ear. Such Similes
abound in human writings. Hence the pleasure of studying the use of
them in the Word of God, where we have the Holy Spirit’s own perfect
work.
Many examples could be given of false, or incongruous Similes in
human writings. Take, for example, Montgomery’s poem on Satan:*
[Note: Quoted in Macbeth’s Might and Mirth of Literature.]

“Lo! the bright dew-bead on the bramble lies,
Like liquid rapture upon Beauty’s eyes.”

We fail to see any resemblance between beauteous eyes and a
bramble; or, any meaning at all in “liquid rapture.”

So Mrs. Browning:

“Then the bitter sea

Inexorably pushed between us both;

And sweeping up the steep with my despair,
Threw us out as a pasture to the stars.”

We fail to see any resemblance between a ship and a pasture; and
why stars go out to grass; or, when they do, why they should feed on
ships and their passengers!

No such inexplicable similes as these can be found in the
Scriptures.

When one is used there, it is “for our learning;” and the more we
study it the more we may learn.

They are usually marked by the Caph (2) in Hebrew; and in the
Greek by ὡς (hds), as; καθώς (kathés), like as; or, by some seventeen
other kindred words* [Note: See under the word “AS” in A Critical
Lexicon and Concordance, by the same author. Longman and Co 15
5.1: and the English: “as,” “like as,” “even as,” “like,” etc.

Simile differs from Comparison, in that comparison admits of dis-
similitudes as well as resemblances.

Simile differs from Allegory (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ) in that
allegory names only one of the two things and leaves us to find, and
make the resemblance with the other, ourselves.

Simile differs from Metaphor (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ), in that it
merely states resemblance, while Metaphor boldly transfers the
representation.

Simile differs from Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), in that
the latter only implies the resemblance, while Simile states it.
Simile, therefore, is destitute of feeling. It is clear, beautiful, gentle,
true to fact, but cold and too deliberate for passion.

All this will be seen as the Similes are studied. They require no

explanation. They explain and are intended to explain themselves. It is
scarcely necessary to give any examples. They abound throughout
the Scripture, and impart to it much of its beauty and force.
Psa. 1:3.-“He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water.” Here,
the similitude tells us that the man who meditates in God’s word is
planted and protected, just as a tree in a garden is cared for as a “tree
of the field” is not.

See under Ellipsis, page 97.

Psa. 1:4.-“The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the
wind driveth away.” The contrast between the driven chaff and the
“planted” tree is most striking and solemn.

The two comparisons are the great features of the Psalm, the
structure of which is as follows:-

A а — 1. The godly blessed in not standing among the ungodly.

Ь 2, 3-. Comparison (2? 22). “Like a tree.”
ο -3. Prosperity.
A ο — 4-. The Contrary: “not so.”
Ь — -4. Comparison (22 22). “Like the chaff.”
а 5. The ungodly punished in not standing among the godly.

Then the last verse stands out alone in solemn grandeur as giving
the reason for the whole.
Psa. 5:12 (13).-“With favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield.”
And why is His “favour” (i.e., His grace, which is favour to the
unworthy) like a shield? Because “in his favour is life,” Psa. 30:5 (6);
because in His favour there is mercy (Isa. 60:10); because in His
favour there is preservation (Psa. 86:2, margin); because in His favour
there is security, Psa. 41:11 (12): and therefore the prayer of all such
favoured ones will ever be Psa. 106:4.
Psa. 17:8.-“Keep me as the apple of the eye [is kepf].”

Psa. 131:2.-"| have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is
weaned of his mother: my soul is even as a weaned child.”

Mat. 7:24-27.-Here we have a magnificent and extended Simile,
almost amounting to a parable. It is too long to quote, and too plain to
need elucidation. It explains to us very clearly and forcibly its own
powerful lesson.

Mat. 9:36.-“They ... were scattered abroad as sheep having no
shepherd.

1Pe. 2:25.-“Ye were as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto
the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.”

Here we have Simile, which stands in marked contrast to the
Proverb in 2Pe. 2:22, as to the “sow.” Both the stray sheep and the
washed sow “return.” But the one returns to the shepherd, and the
other to the mire. We may note also that the verb “returned” as used
of the “sheep” is the passive form; while, as used of the “sow,” it is the
active form. Showing that the “sheep” is made to return by a
constraining power, while the “sow” returns of its own act and free-will.
See under Paroemia.
Sometimes a Simile is really used as a figure, implying not
merely a resemblance but the actual thing itself.

Gen. 25:31.-“Sell me as on this day (2222, kayy6m)’: i.e., on this
very day. See, too, verse 33.
Num. 11:1.-The Heb. reads: “And when the People was as
murmurers, it was evil in the ears of Jehovah.”

Here the resemblance was real: i.e., they were murmurers.
Neh. 7:2.-“I gave my brother Hanani ... charge over Jerusalem: for he
acted as a faithful man (2222), etc.”: {Θ., he was a faithful man.
Isa. 1:7.-“It is desolate as the overthrow of strangers.” See A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
margin.

See under Antimereia, and compare Isa. 13:6.
Isa. 1:9.-“Except the Lord of hosts had left unto us a very small
remnant, we should have been as Sodom, and we should have been
like unto Gomorrah.”

Here the words of the godly remnant declare the resemblance;
and in the next verse Jehovah endorses it as true; addressing the
ungodly but most religious nation actually as “the rulers of Sodom”
and “the people of Gomorrah.”

Psa. 122:3.-“Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together’:
ie., it was a city so built.

Hos. 5:10.-“The princes of Judah were like them that remove the
bound”: i.e., they actually committed this sin, the greatness of which is
seen from Deu. 19:14; Deu. 27:17.

Mat. 14:5.-“Because they counted him as a prophet”: i.e., as actually
a prophet.

Luk. 22:44.-“His sweat was as it were great drops of blood”: i.e., it
was.

Joh. 1:14.-“And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten
of the Father”: i.e., the glory of Him who was really the only begotten
Son of the Father.

Rom. 9:32.-“Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it
were (i.e., actually) by the works of the law.”

2Co. 2:17.-“We are not as many, which corrupt the word of God: but
as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God speak we in Christ”:
i.eé., we speak really and truly sincere, pure, and Divine words.
2Co. 3:18.-“We are all with unveiled face beholding as in a mirror
(κατοτπριζόµενοι, katoptrizomenoi) the glory of the Lord, are trans-
figured to the same image, from glory to glory, even as from the Lord-
the Spirit’: ie., really by the actual operation of the Holy Spirit. His
office is to glorify Christ; and those who are led by the Spirit do occupy
themselves with Christ-the heavenly object, and thus become like
Him, heavenly, and that without an effort. Indeed, the measure in
which we are “filled with the Spirit” is the measure in which we are
thus occupied with Christ.

Sometimes the word “as” is followed by the word “so,” to
strengthen and heighten the comparison, and make it more clear:
asin
Isa. 24:2.-“And it shall be
As with the people,

So with the priest;
As with the servant,
So with his master;
As with the maid,
So with her mistress;
As with the buyer,
So with the seller;
As with the lender,
So with the borrower;
As with the taker of usury,
So with the giver of usury to him.”
And all this to show the universality of the judgment which shall
make the land empty and desolate.
This is a combination of Syncrisis with this form of Simile.
Isa. 55:10, 11.-
а “As the rain cometh down, and the snow
Ь — Ргот heaven,
с And returneth not thither, but watereth the earth, and
maketh it bring forth and bud,
@Я — That it may give seed to the sower, and bread to
the eater.

а — So shall my word be that goeth forth

Ь Out of my mouth:
ο Itshall not return unto me void,
а Βιΐ it shall accomplish that which | please, and it
shall prosper in the thing whereto | sent it.”

Here, in this beautiful comparison, we have in a and a the two
things compared, the Word resembling the rain and snow; in b and b
we have their source; in c and c, their destiny, not returning void; and
in d and d, their end prospering, end the accomplishment of their
mission.

“AS” and “SO.”

We have collected a number of these examples of the use of “as”
and “so” together; and arranged them, not in the sequence of the
books of the Bible, or in full; but we have numbered them and placed
them so as to illustrate the ways of God in grace:-

1. Sin and death (Rom. 5:12). These words explain the mystery
of the first and last Adam, and the first and second man: their
temptation and its results as shown in Gen. 3:1-24, Mat.
4:1-25, and Rom. 6:23. This explains

2. Offence and righteousness: judgment and free gift (Rom.
5:18); also

3. Disobedience and obedience: sinners and righteous (Rom.
5:19). Hence the eternal results of

4. Sin and death: grace and eternal life (Rom. 5:21).

Now we pass from sin and its entrance and consequences to

5. — № remedy. The Serpent and the Son of Man (Joh. 3:14). Note
the two “musts” (verses 7 and 14); and the parabolic miracle of
Num. 21:5-9. Note the ‘lifting up” spoken of in Joh. 12:32. The
“all” means all without distinction (no longer the one People of
Israel) not “all” without exception.

In due time Christ came to be thus “lifted up,” and

6. do the Father’s will, and Commandment, and He did (Joh.
14:31), and

7. suffered; Lamb dumb, and so He; etc. (Isa. 53:7). Hence
8. Once to die, and once offered (Heb. 9:27-28).

Then

9. they are sent, “Sent Me” and “sent them” (Joh. 17:18)

10. to bear testimony of His grace: “Believed” and “done” (Mat.
8:13),

11. yea, of His life-giving grace: Life (Joh. 5:26).

12. God reveals Himself. Heaven and earth; ways and thoughts
(Isa. 55:9), and

13. man, morally: Foolish as a beast (Psa. 73:22).

14. Fathers and sons, etc., ye (Act. 7:51); and
15. physically, the Flower that flourisheth (Psa. 103:15).

Then He reveals

16. His mercy: Heaven high and mercy great (Psa. 103:11),

17. His forgiveness: East from west and trangressions removed
(Psa. 103:12),

18. His pity: A father and the Lord (Psa. 103:13), and

19. His love: The Father and | (Joh. 15:9).

Then He reveals

20. our relationships and duties: Many members and one body
(Rom. 12:4; see 1Co. 12:12-13).

21. Mutual forgiveness: Christ forgave and do ye (Col. 3:13),

22. Christ-like walk: Received and walk ye (Col. 2:6).

23. Divine consolations: Sufferings and consolation (2Co. 1:5;
2Co. 1:7).

24. Missionary work: Received and minister (1Ре. 4:10); with
25. the Divine promise, Rain and snow: the word of God (Isa.
55:10-11); and

26. the Divine support, Thy days and thy strength (Deu. 33:25).

Oh may our desire to do His will be according to,

27. The hart panting, and the soul longing (Psa. 42:1 (2)).

The JEW.

28. All blessing based on God's original covenant-promise; Stars
and seed (Jer. 33:22), see especially Gen. 15:5, and Rom.
4:18. The covenant of works they brake, see Exo. 24:3; Exo.
24:7 and Jer. 31:32, and are now suffering the consequences.

29. The future blessing of Israel will be under the original
covenant, of grace: as Mother comforteth, so will | comfort (Isa.
66:13).

30. Bridegroom and thy God (Isa. 62:5).

31. The waters of Noah, and wrath (Isa. 54:9-10).

32. Shepherd seeking and | will seek (Eze. 34:12).
The GENTILE. We must not separate what God has joined
together, nor join together what God has separated (Mat. 19:6). The
Jew, the Gentile, and the Church of God, are distinct in their calling,
standing, hope, and destiny (1Co. 10:32). The preaching of the
Gospel is not to convert the world, but to take out a People (Act.
15:14); while the world will get worse and worse until Christ suddenly
comes.

33. Lightning, and coming (Mat. 24:27).

34. The days of Noah, and the coming of the Son of Man (Mat.

24:37-39).

The CHURCH OF GOD. Christ's advent will wear a different
aspect to the Church. Not like the lightning or a thief, but

35. “this same Jesus.” As ye have seen Him go will so come (Act.

1:11). Christ’s resurrection is the type and pledge of ours.
36. As all in Adam die, so all in Christ made alive (1Co. 15:22).
Note the “order” (verses 23 and 24).
Syncrisis; or, Repeated Simile

Repetition of a number of Resemblances
Syn~-cri-sis. Greek, σύγκρισις, from σύν (sun), together with, and
κρίσις (crisis), a judging or deciding.

Hence, Syncrisis is the judging or comparing of one thing with
another; and is used of the figure which consists of a repeated Simile,
or of more than one, or of a number of separate comparisons used
together.

Another name for this figure is PARATHESIS (Pa-rath’-e-sis),
Greek, παράθεσις, a putting beside; from παρά (para), beside, and
τιθέναι (tithenai), to place.

It was called by the Latins COMPARATIO: i.e., a bringing together
and comparing.

Isa. 1:18.-
“Though your sins be as scarlet,
They shall be as white as snow;
Though they be red like crimson,
They shall be as wool.”

Isa. 32:2.-“And a man shall be as an hiding place from the wind, anda
covert from the tempest; as rivers of water in a dry place, as the
shadow of a great rock in a weary land.”

Isa. 66:12.-“For thus saith the Lord, Behold, | will extend peace to her
like a river, and the glory of the Gentiles like a flowing stream.”

Metaphor; or, Representation
A Declaration that one Thing is (or represents) another; or,
Comparison by Representation
Met’-a-phor. Greek, µεταθορά (metaphora), а transference, or
carrying over or across. From µετά (meta), beyond or over, and φέρειν
(pherein), to carry. We may call the figure “Representation” or
“Transference.”

Hence, while the Simile gently states that one thing is like or
resembles another, the Metaphor boldly and warmly declares that one
thing IS the other.

While the Simile says “All flesh is AS grass” (1Pe. 1:24), the
Metaphor carries the figure across at once, and says “All flesh IS
grass” (Isa. 40:6). This is the distinction between the two.

The Metaphor is, therefore, not so true to fact as the Simile, but is
much truer to feeling.

The Simile says “All we like sheep,” while the Metaphor declares
that “we are the sheep of His pasture.”

While, therefore, the word “resembles” marks the Simile:
“represents” is the word that marks the metaphor.

We have recourse to Metaphor when we say of a picture, “This is
my father,” or “This is my mother.” The verb “is” means in this case
represents; there may not be the least resemblance! The verb “is”
always has this meaning and no other when used as a metaphor. No
other verb will do.

Few figures are more misunderstood than the Metaphor. It is one
of the few whose names are well known, and hence it has become. a
general term for any figure; and any figurative language is commonly
called “metaphorical.”

Few figures have been more variously defined. But all the
differences of opinion arise from not separating the figure
Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) on the one hand, ог
distinguishing Simile on the other. The same confusion is seen with
reference to Allegory (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

Let it then be clearly understood that a Metaphor is confined to a
distinct affirmation that one thing is another thing, owing to some
association or connection in the uses or effects of anything expressed
or understood. The two nouns themselves must both be mentioned,
and are always to be taken in their absolutely literal sense, or else no
one can tell what they mean. The figure lies wholly in the verb, or
copula, which, in English, must always be expressed, and never
understood by Ellipsis.

For example, “All flesh is grass.” Here “flesh” is to be taken literally
as the subject spoken of, and “grass” is to be taken equally literally as
that which represents “flesh.” All the figure lies in the verb “is.” This
statement is made under strong feeling, the mind realising some point
of association; but, instead of using the more measured verb
“resembles,” or “is like”; which would be truer to fact, though not so
true to feeling; the verb “is” is used, and the meaning of one thing is
carried across and transferred to the other. It is not, as some might
think, a mere Hebrew idiom to use “is” for “represents”; but it is a
necessity of language arising from the actual condition and character
of the human mind.

We must, therefore, banish the common and loose way in which
the words “metaphor” and “metaphorical” are used, and confine the
figure strictly and exclusively to this, its one true and proper
signification: that of representation.
The Representation referred to in the figure may not lie upon the
surface, and may not be at all apparent in the language itself. It may
be in the uses of the thing represented, or in the effects which it
produces. In this case the Metaphor often comes as a surprise, by the
discovery of a point in which two apparently unrelated objects have
some point in which they really agree. Hence the same thing may be
used, by a Metaphor, to represent two totally different objects by some
different quality or character which may be referred to: e.g., a lion is
used both of Christ and of the devil. We are to “cease from man” as
opposed to trust in God; we are exhorted to “quit” ourselves like men
as opposed to all that is effeminate.

The Latins* [Note: Cicero. Orat. xxvii] called the figure
TRANSLATIO: i.e., Translation, thus denoting the same fact: viz., the
translation or carrying across of one thing and applying it to another
which represents it, just as what is meant in one language is carried
across and expressed or transiated in the words of another language.

It should be observed that the Hebrew has no verb substantive or
copula answering to the Greek and English verb “to be.” Consequently
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] generally puts in italics the verbs “is,” “are,” “were,” etc.
The verb “to be,” though it is not necessary to be expressed in
Hebrew, is yet so really there that the R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] has abandoned the use of italic type with regard to it
in the Old Testament, and so the Revisers state it in their preface. We
prefer the practice of the translators of the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ‚ and believe it is
more correct.

In the Greek, as we shall see below, whenever a Metaphor is

intended, the verb substantative must be used; otherwise it is often
omitted according to the Hebrew usage (see the Beatitudes, etc.). It is,
therefore, more easy to discern a Metaphor in the New Testament
than in the Old. In the latter we have to be guided by what is true to
fact and what is true only to feeling. If we distinguish between these,
we shall not fail to see what is a statement of fact, and what is a
Metaphor.
Psa. 23:1.-“The Lord is my Shepherd.” Here, we have a Metaphor;
and in it a great and blessed truth is set forth by the representation of
Jehovah as a Shepherd. It is He who tends his People, and does
more for them than any earthly shepherd does for his sheep All His
titles and attributes are so bound up with this care that in this Psalm
we have the illustration of all the Jehovah-titles:-

In verse 1. “I shall not want,” because He is Jehovah-Jireh (Gen.
22:14), and will provide.
In verse 2. “He leadeth me beside the waters of quietness
(margin), because He is Jehovah-Shalom (Jdg. 6:24), and will give
peace.

In verse 3. “He restoreth my soul,” for He is Jehovah-Rophecha
(Exo. 15:26), and will graciously heal.

In verse 3. He guides me “in the paths of righteousness,” for He is
Jehovah-tzidkenu (Jer. 23:6), and is Himself my righteousness, and |
am righteous in Him (Jer. 33:16).

In verse 4. In death’s dark valley “Thou art with me,” for thou art
Jehovah-shammah (Eze. 48:35), and the Lord is there.

In verse 5. “Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of
mine enemies,” for Thou art Jehovah-nissi (Exo. 17:15), my banner,
and will fight for me, while | feast.

In verse 5. “Thou anointest my head with oil,” for Thou art
Jehovah-mekaddeschem (Exo. 31:13, etc.), the Lord that sanctifieth
me.
In verse 6. “Surely” all these blessings are mine for time and

eternity, for He is Jehovah-rohi (Psa. 23:1), Jehovah my Shepherd,
pledged to raise me up from the dead, and to preserve and bring me
“through” the valley of death into His glorious kingdom (Joh. 6:39).
Psa. 84:11 (12).-“The Lord God is a Sun and Shield.” Here, the
Metaphor is taken from the uses and effects of the two things
mentioned. He is my light and my defence. See P.B.V. [Note: .B.V. The
Prayer Book Version of the Psalms (from Coverdale’s Bible).]
Psa. 91:4.-“His truth is a shield and a buckler” (R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ). Here, we have the Metaphor, by which the
one thing is carried over and stated as being the other. In Psa. 5:12,
we have the same fact stated literally as a Simile. See page 728
above.

Metaphors are so numerous in the Old Testament, that it is

impossible to give more than these few to serve as specimens and
examples. We add a few from the New Testament.
Mat. 5:13.-“Ye are the salt of the earth”: i.e., ye are (or represent) with
regard to the earth what salt is to other things, preserving it from total
corruption and destruction; just as the few righteous in Sodom would
have preserved that city.
When the Lord Jesus shall have returned and caught up His
People (the salt) to meet Him in the air and to be for ever with Him,
then the corruption will proceed apace, and the harvest of the earth
speedily be ripened for judgment.

Mat. 26:26.-“This is my body” (τοῦτό ἐστι τὸ σῶμά µου, touto esti to
56/18 mou).

Few passages have been more perverted than these simple
words. Rome has insisted on the literal or the figurative sense of
words just as it suits her own purpose, and not at all according to the
laws of philology and the true science of language.

Hence the Latin idiom, “agere poenitentiam,” repent, has been
rendered literally in all her versions from the Vulgate, in various
languages, “do penance,” except when God is said to repent! Rome
dared not translate agere poenitentiam literally in these cases, which
proves her design in thus systematically perverting the Word of God:
and the false doctrine is thus forced into the words under a show or
semblance of literal translation.* [Note: Rome would not dare to
translate the same Latin idiom “agere vitam,” to do life, though the
expression has passed into slang. It means simply to live, as the other
idiom means to repent.] So the Metaphor, “This is my body,” has been
forced to teach false doctrine by being translated literally.
No perversion of language has been fraught with greater calamity
to the human race. Tens of thousands have suffered martyrdom at the
hands of Rome rather than believe the “blasphemous fable” forced
into these words. The exquisite tortures of the Inquisition were
invented to coerce the consciences of men and compel them to
accept this lie!

Luther himself was misled, through his ignorance of this simple law
of figurative language. In his controversy with Zwingle, he obstinately
persisted in maintaining the literal sense of the figure, and thus forced
it to have a meaning which it never has. He thus led the whole of
Germany into his error! For, while his common sense rejected the
error of “Transubstantiation,” he fell into another, and invented the
figment of “Consubstantiation,” and fastened it upon the Lutheran
Church to this day.

What a solemn and instructive lesson as to the importance of a
true understanding of the figures of language!
The whole figure, in a metaphor, lies, as we have said, in the verb
substantive “IS”; and not in either of the two nouns; and # is a
remarkable fact that, when a pronoun is used instead of one of the
nouns (as it is here), and the two nouns are of different genders, the
pronoun is always made to agree in gender with that noun to which
the meaning is carried across, and not with the noun from which it is
carried, and to which it properly belongs. This at once shows us that a
figure is being employed; when a pronoun, which ought, according to
the laws of language, to agree in gender with its own noun, is
changed, and made to agree with the noun which, by Metaphor,
represents it.

Here, for example, the pronoun, “this” (τοῦτό, touto), is neuter, and
is thus made to agree with “body” (σῶμά, séma), which is neuter, and
not with bread (ἄρτος, artos), which is masculine.* [Note: In violation
of this law, a recent revision of the Marathi Prayer Book has
deliberately changed the gender of the pronoun and made it to agree
with the word for “bread”!]

This is always the case in Metaphors, and a few examples may be
cited here, instead of in their natural order and place.

In Zec. 5:8, “This is wickedness.” Here, “this” (fem.) does not
agree with “ephah” (to which it refers), which is neuter (LXX. [Note:
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ), but with “wickedness,” which is
feminine.

In Zec. 5:3, “This is the curse.” “This” (fem.) agrees with “curse,”
which is feminine, and not with “flying roll,” which is neuter, (to which it
refers), (Spétravov, drepanon, LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version
(325 b.c.).]).

In Mat. 13:38, “The good seed are the children of the kingdom.”
Here, “these” (masc.) (οὗτοι, houtoi),t [Note: This pronoun is omitted
in the English of the A.V. and Π.Ν] agrees with “children of the
kingdom” (masc.), and not with seed (σπέρµα, sperma), which is
neuter.

Luk. 8:14, “These are they which having heard,” etc. Here, “these”
(masc.) (οὗτοι, houtoi) agrees with the participle (οἱ ἀκούσαντες, hoi
akousantes), “they which having heard,” which is masculine, and not
with the seed, (to which it refers), which is neuter.

All this establishes our statement that, in a Metaphor, the two
nouns (or pronoun and noun) are always literal, and that the figure lies
only in the verb. Another remarkable fact is that in the vast number of
cases where the language is literal, and there is no metaphor at all,
the verb is omitted altogether.* [Note: This rule does not apply to the
Hebrew, of course, as we have said above: because it has no verb “to
be.”] Even when a Metaphor has been used, and the language
passes suddenly from figurative to literal, the verb is at once dropped,
by Ellipsis, as not being necessary for the literal sense, as it was for
the previous figurative expression: e.g., in 1Co. 12:27, “Ye ARE the
body of Christ.” Here is a metaphor, and consequently the verb is
used. But in verse 29, which is literal, the Change is at once made,
and the fact is marked by the omission of the verb,” [Are] all apostles?
[are] all prophets? [are] all teachers? [are] all workers of miracles?”
Next compare other examples of Metaphors which are naturally

used in the explanations of Parables. Note the Parables of the Sower,
and of the Tares (Mat. 13:19-23; Mat. 13:37-43).

“He that soweth the good seed is (i.e., represents) the Son of

man.”

“The field is (i.e., signifies) the world.”

“The good seed are the children of the kingdom.”

“But the tares are the children of the wicked one.”

“The enemy that sowed them is the devil.”
“The harvest is the end of the age.”
“And the reapers are the angels.”
In all these (as in every other Metaphor) the verb means, and
might have been rendered, “represents,” or “signifies.”
The Apocalypse is full of metaphors, e.g.:
“The seven stars are ({6., represent) the angels of the seven
churches.”
“And the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven
churches” (1:20).
The odours “are the prayers of the saints” (5:8).
“They are the spirits of demons” (16:14).
“The seven heads are (i.e., represent) seven mountains (17:9):
etc., etc.
So in the very words that follow “this is (i.e., represents or
signifies) my body,” we have an undoubted Metaphor. “He took the
cup ... saying ... this is my blood.” Here, thus, we have a pair of
metaphors. In the former one, “this” refers to “bread,” and it is claimed
that “is” means changed into the “body” of Christ. In the latter, “this”
refers to “the cup,” but it is not claimed that the cup is changed into
“blood.” At least, we have never heard that such a claim has been put
forward. The difference of treatment which the same figure meets with
in these two verses is the proof that the former is wrong.

In 1Co. 11:25 we read “this cup is the new covenant.” Will
Romanists, in and out of the Church of England, tell us how this “cup”
becomes transubstantiated into a “covenant”?

Is it not clear that the figure in the words, “This is my body,” is
forced into a literal statement with the set purpose and design of
making it teach and support erroneous doctrine?

Other examples of Metaphor in this immediate connection are:
1Co. 10:16.-“The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not ({6., does it
not represent) the communion of the blood of Christ.” through which
all blessing comes to us?

“The bread which we break, is it not (i.e., does it not represent) the
communion of the body of Christ?” ie., does it not signify the
fellowship of all the members of Christ's mystical body, who, being
many, are one body (1Co. 12:12)? “For we being many are one bread,
and one body,” as 1Co. 10:17 declares.

It is because those who eat of that bread do not “discern” or
discriminate that “one body” ({6., Christ mystical) that they are said to
eat to their own condemnation; for they witness to the fact of that
“great Mystery” and yet are ignorant of its truth! And hence they
condemn themselves.

Further, the verb, εἰμι (eimi), Г am, or the infinitive of it, to be,
means to be in the sense of signifying, amounting to. And that this is
one of its primary senses may be seen from the following passages,
where it is actually translated “to mean,” and not merely to be:-“

“But go ye and learn what that is” (i.e., meaneth, as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] ), Mat. 9:13.

“But if ye had known what that is” (A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
meaneth), Mat. 12:7.

“He asked what these things were” (A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
16141, meant), Luk. 15:26.
“What is this?” (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “What meaneth this?”)
Act. 2:12.

“Now, while Peter doubted in himself what this vision was which
he had seen” (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] , “What this vision should mean”), Act. 10:17,
etc., etc., etc.

On the other hand, if an actua/ change is meant, then there must
be a verb which shall plainly and actually say so: for the verb “to be”
never has or conveys any idea of such change.
The usual verb to express such a change is γίνομαι (ginomai),
which means {ο be or become. Mar. 4:39, “There was (i.e., there
became) a great calm,” and the storm was changed (or turned into)
into calm.

Luk. 4:3, “Command this stone that it be made (i.e., changed into)
bread.”

Joh. 2:9, “When the ruler of the feast tasted the water that was
made (i.e., changed into) wine.”

Joh. 16:20, “Your sorrow shall be turned into joy.” This was a real
transubstantiation.

Act. 26:28, Agrippa said, “Almost thou persuadest me fo be (i.e., to
become) a Christian.”

Rev. 8:8, “The third part of the sea became blood,” and in verse
11, “Many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.”

In all these cases (but the last) the verb is γίνομαι (ginomai), to
become: and, if the Lord had meant that the bread became His body,
that is the verb He would have necessarily used. The fact that He did
not use it, but used the simple verb, εἶμι (eimi), instead, {6., “is,”
proves conclusively that no change was meant, and that only
representation was intended.

Just as when we are looking over a map and say, “This is
England,” “This is America,” “This is Palestine,” etc., we do not mean
that that piece of paper is England, but we mean that those marks
upon it represent those respective countries.

From all this it is philologically, philosophically, and scientifically
clear that the words, “This is my body,” mean “This [bread] represents
my body.” And as Professor Macbeth has put it, “We trample on the
laws of nature, and we trample on the laws of language when we force
the verb ‘is’ to mean what it never does mean.”

And, besides all this, to pass from the use made of this perversion,
suppose for a moment that we grant the claim, and the words mean
that the Lord Jesus then and there did transmute the bread into His
own body (if we can imagine such an impossibility!), what then?
Where is there a breath about His giving that power to any one else?
Where is there one word about such gifts being conferred? And, if it
be claimed, as it is by some traitors in the Church of England, that the
words, “Do this,” convey that power and authority, it could have been
conveyed only to the eleven that were present. Where is there a
breath about not only giving them power, but delegating it to them to
give to others, and these to others again indefinitely? There is not one
single word expressed or implied that conveys the idea that one iota of
such power was conferred or delegated. So that the whole fabric of
transubstantiation rests on absolutely no foundation whatsoever!
There is a “missing link” which is fatal to the whole position.

And this, on the assumption which we have only for the moment
granted. But, when it is seen that not only is there this link missing,
which can never be supplied: but that there is also this claim which
can never be substantiated; we have an explanation of the Metaphor
which sweeps the dogma out of the Scriptures, and proves it to be a
fiction which is the outcome of ignorance, and this by arguments that
cannot be overthrown, and facts that cannot be denied.

Joh. 6:35. “I am the bread of life: {6., what bread does in supporting
natural life is a representation of what Christ does in supporting and
nourishing the new, Divine, spiritual life.

Joh. 8:12.-“l am the light of the world.”

Joh. 10:9.-“I ат the door”: i.e., | ат what a door is. | am the entrance
to the sheepfold, and to the Father. Yes, a door, and not a flight of
steps. A door, through which we pass in one movement from one side
to the other.

Joh. 15:5.-“I am the true vine.”
Here the word ἀληθινός (aleethinos) helps the figure, for it means
true as regards the reality in relation to shadows or representations.
Not “true” as opposed to what is false, but the “very” vine: the vine all
earthly vines represent, and to which they point in such Scriptures as
Isa. 5:1-30 and Psa. 80:1-19* [Note: See an Article, by the same
author, in Things to Come for July, 1899.]

Gal. 4:24.-“Which things are an allegory: for these are the two
covenants,” etc.

Hypocatastasis; or, Implication
A Declaration that implies the Resemblance or Representation; or
Comparison by Implication

Hy’-po-cat-as‘-ta-sis. Greek, ὑποκατάστασις, substitution or
implication; from ὑπό (hypo), underneath, κατά (kata), down, and
στάσις (stasis), a stationing. Hence, a putting down underneath.
As a figure, it differs from Metaphor, because in a metaphor the
two nouns are both named and given; while, in Hypocatastasis, only
one is named and the other is implied, or as it were, is put down
underneath out of sight. Hence Hypocatastasis is implied resemblance
or representation: i.e., an implied Simile or Metaphor. ΙΙ Metaphor is
more forcible than Simile, then Hypocatastasis is more forcible than
Metaphor, and expresses as it were the superlative degree of
resemblance.

For example, one may say to another, “You are like a beast.” This
would be Simile, tamely stating a fact. If, however, he said, “You are a
beast” that would be Metaphor. But, if he said simply, “Beast!” that
would be Hypocatastasis, for the other part of the Simile or Metaphor
(“you”), would be implied and not stated.

This figure, therefore, is calculated to arouse the mind and attract
and excite the attention to the greatest extent.

So well known was it to the ancients, that it received this
significant name. But it is, to-day, unmentioned by literary men, though
it is often unconsciously used by them. Thus, their language is
enriched by its use, while the figure is unknown, even by name!

What a proof of the sad neglect into which this great subject has
fallen; and what an example of the consequent loss which has
ensued.

This beautiful and far-reaching figure frequently occurs in
Scripture. The Lord Jesus Himself often used it, and that with
wondertul effect.

Its beauty and force will be at once seen, if we compare one or two
passages.

When, in Jer. 49:19, we read of the king of Babylon coming up
against Edom, it says: “Behold, he shall come up like a lion ... against
the habitation of the strong”: etc. Here, we have a Simile, and the
feelings are unmoved, as it is only against Edom that the assault is
made.

But it is a very different case in Jer. 4:7, where the same king of
Babylon is spoken of as coming up against Zion. In the heat of excited
feeling he is not named, but only implied.

“The lion is come up from his thicket.”

So, in all the other cases, it will be well to contrast every example
of Hypocatastasis with both Simile and Metaphor, in order to gather
the full force of its meaning and the reason for its use instead of either
of the other two.
Psa. 22:16 (17).-“Оод5 have compassed me about.”

Here He does not say that his enemies were like dogs, or that
they were dogs; no: the word “enemies” is not mentioned. It is implied:
and by a kind of Prosopopoeia, they are spoken of as “dogs.” It means
of course, “mine enemies have compassed me about” as the next.
sentence goes on to explain. See also under Paronomasia.
Mat. 15:13.-“Every plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted,
shall be rooted up.” This is Hypocatastasis, bordering on Allegory.
Persons are implied, though only plants are named. The solemn
lesson of this implication is, that unless the work in the heart be that of
God Himself, all is vain. It is useless therefore to attempt to effect
conversion or to impart a new nature by personal appeals,
persuasions, or excitement. This is only to make the flesh religious,
and “that which is born of the flesh is flesh.”

Mat. 16:6.-“Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and of the
Sadducees.” There the word “doctrine” is implied. Had the Lord said,
“the doctrine of the Pharisees is like leaven,” that would have been
Simile, and a cold, bare statement of fact; but He did not say so. Had
He said “the doctrine of the Pharisees is leaven,” that would have
been Metaphor, much bolder, much more forcible, but not so true to
fact though much truer to truth. But He did not say so. He took the
word “doctrine” and put it down underneath, and did not mention it at
all. He only implied it: and this was Hypocatastasis.

No wonder then that the attention of the disciples was excited and
attracted. No wonder their interest was aroused: for this was the
Lord’s object.

“They reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have
taken no bread. Which when Jesus perceived, he said unto them, O
ye of little faith, why reason ye among yourselves, because ye have
brought no bread? Do ye not yet understand?... How is it that ye do
not understand that | spake not to you concerning bread, that ye
should beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Saducees?
Then understood they how that he bade them not beware of the
leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and of the
Sadducees” (verses 6-12). This example is remarkable when we
compare it with another, in the previous chapter, which we give next;
and out of its textual order for the purpose of contrast.

Mat. 15:26.-“It is not meet to take the children’s bread, and to cast it to
dogs.” Here, the Lord Jesus, did not say to the woman of Canaan,
Thou art a dog of the Gentiles (which would have been Metaphor), but
He left out all reference to her, and only referred to her by implication,
substituting a “dog” for herself. The woman, unlike the disciples (in
chap. 16), at once saw and understood what the Lord implied, viz.,
that it was not meet to take that which belonged to Israel and give it to
a Gentile (or a dog of a Gentile as they were called by the Jews), “And
she said, Truth, Lord.” What she felt is clear: “It is quite true; Thou art
perfectly right; | called Thee ‘the Son of David,’ and deserved no
answer; | pleaded for ‘help’ and said: ‘Lord, help me’; but | made no
confession as to who the ‘me’ was: no acknowledgment of my
unworthiness and unmeetness as ‘a dog of the Gentiles.’ ” “Truth,
Lord: yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their master’s
table. Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy
faith.”

So, it is “great faith” to understand what the Lord implied by the
use of this beautiful figure, and it is “little faith” not to understand it!
even though the former was spoken of a Gentile woman, and the latter
of the apostles of the Lord. See also under Synecdoche and Meiosis.
Joh. 2:19.-“Destroy this temple, and in three days | will raise it up.”
The Lord Jesus did not say that His body was like the temple (that
would have been Simile), or that it was His body (that would have
been Metaphor). He merely implied the word body, as ver. 21 plainly
declares: “He spake of the temple of his body.”

Here was neither “great faith” nor ‘little faith,” but wilful unbelief of
His words. His disciples remembered them after He was raised from
the dead, and believed. His enemies remembered them before and
perverted them: “This fellow said, | am able to destroy the temple of
God, and to build it in three days” (Mat. 26:61). He said no such thing.
What He foretold was that they would destroy “this temple” of His
body, and that He should raise it again from the dead in three days,
and build it again. See also under Heterosis.

Other examples are:-

Mat. 3:10.-“Where, by the axe being laid to the root of the trees, etc.,
is implied the result of the ministry of John the Baptist.

The same is the case with ver. 12.

Mat. 5:29-30.-“May also be explained by this figure better than by
Hyperbole (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). The right eye, etc., is compared
by implication to the most highly prized possession.
Mat. 7:3-5.-“The mote and beam refer by implication to anything that
perverts the vision.

Mat. 7:6.-“Here “dogs” and “swine” are compared by implication to
persons.

Mar. 1:17.-“I will make you to become fishers of men.” The Lord does
not say like fishers, nor does He use direct metaphor. The
resemblance is only by implication.

Act. 20:29.-“I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves
enter in among you, not sparing the flock.”

Thus does the Holy Spirit inform us, by Implication, as to the true
character of “apostolic succession,” in order to impress the solemn
fact on our minds.

Allegory; or, Continued Metaphor and
Hypocatastasis
Continued Comparison by Representation or Implication
Al’-le-go-ry. Greek, ἀλληγορία, from ἄλλος (allos), another, and
ἀγορεύειν (agoreuein), to speak or make a speech in the agora (i.e.,
assembly).

Few figures have been the subject of greater controversy than
Allegory; or, have been more variously defined. One class of
Rhetoricians declare that it is a continued metaphor: and another
class declare that it is not. But, as is often the case under such
circumstances, neither is quite correct, because both have a part of
the truth and put it for the whole. Neither of the contending parties
takes into consideration the existence of Hypocatastasis. And this fact
accounts for the confusion, not only with regard to Allegory, but also
with regard to Metaphor.

All three figures are based on comparison. Simile is comparison by
resemblance; Metaphor is comparison’ by — representation;
Hypocatastasis is comparison by implication.

In the first the comparison is stated; in the second it is substituted;
in the third it is implied.

Thus Allegory is a continuation of the latter two, Metaphor or
Hypocatastasis; while the Parable (q.v. [Note: Which see] ) is a
continuation of the Simile.
This definition clears the whole ground, and explains the whole of
the difficulties, and reconciles the different schools.
The Allegory, therefore, is of two kinds; one in which it is continued

Metaphor (as in Psa. 23:1-6), where the two things are both
mentioned (Jehovah, and the Shepherd’s care), and what is asserted
belongs to the principal object; the other, in which it is continued
Hypocatastasis (Psa. 80:8-15), where only one thing is mentioned (the
vine), and what is asserted belongs properly to the Secondary object;
viz., to Israel. Israel whom it really refers, is not mentioned, but only
implied.
Isa. 5:1-6.-“This is an Allegory which combines both forms. “Judah
and Jerusalem” (concerning whom Isaiah prophecies 1:1) are again
represented as a vine, and the Allegory commences by implying them,
and afterwards proceeds to substitute them (vers. 3-7).

Allegory thus differs from Parable, for a parable is a continued
Simile. № never departs from the simple statement that one thing
resembles another. While the allegory represents, or implies, that the
one thing is the other. As in the allegory of the Pilgrim’s Progress:
What is spoken of one person refers to another person in similar
circumstances and experiences. In Psa. 80:1-19 and Isa. 5:1-30, what
is spoken of a Vine refers to Israel: but, in Genesis, what is stated of
Israel and Ishmael, Sarah and Hagar is all true history, yet in Gal.
4:1-31 it is made to speak of and set forth other truths, and hence
there it is, and is called an “Allegory” (Gal. 4:24).
No figure requires more careful discrimination than Allegory. And it
would be safer to say that there are no allegories in Scripture than to
follow one’s own judgment as to what is allegory, and what is not.

At any rate, we have only one which is distinctly declared to be
such; and that is Gal. 4:22; Gal. 4:24. “It is written, that Abraham had
two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a free woman. But he
who was of the bond-woman was born after the flesh; but he of the
free-woman was by promise. Which things are an Allegory”: or, which
things teach or tell us something beyond what is said.

The modern and common usage of the word allegoria is thus quite
different from this Scriptural definition. According to the modern sense
it is taken to mean a fictitious narrative which has another and deeper
meaning than that which is expressed.

An allegory may sometimes be fictitious, but Gal. 4:1-31 shows us
that a true history may be allegorized (i.e., be shown to have further
teaching in that which actually took place) without detracting from the
truth of the history. Here note this important fact: that, in either case,
Allegory is always stated in the past tense, and never in the future.
Allegory is thus distinguished from Prophecy. The Allegory brings
other teaching out of past events, while the prophecy tells us events
that are yet to come, and means exactly what is said.
Gen. 49:1-33.-“The prophetical blessing of Jacob is mixed. Part of it is
Simile (verse 4). Some is Metaphor (verse 9). In some parts the
Metaphors are repeated, in which case we have Allegory.
Jdg. 9:7-15.-“This is not a parable, as the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] chapter-heading
calls it; because there is no similitude, by which one thing is likened to
another. It is a continued Hypocatastasis, only one of the two things
being plainly mentioned. Were it not for the interpretation given, in
verses 16-20, there would be nothing beyond what is implied.

It is interesting to note that the four trees referred to-“the Fig-tree,
the Olive, the vine, and the Bramble-“are the four which are used to
combine the whole of Israel’s history.
The fig-tree represents the National position of Israel, from which
we learn (in the Synoptic Gospels) that it withered away and has been
cut down.

The olive tree represents the Covenant privileges of Israel (Rom.
14:1-96): which are now in abeyance.

The vine represents Israel’s Spiritual blessings, which henceforth
are to be found only in Christ, the True Vine (Joh. 15:1-27).

The bramble represents the Antichrist, in whose shadow they will
yet trust, but who will be to Israel a consuming fire in the day of
“Jacob’s trouble’-“the great Tribulation.”* [Note: See Things to Come
for July, 1899. A. Holness, 14 Paternoster Row.]

Isa. 28:20 is Allegory: i.e., repeated Hypocatastasis, only one part of
the figure being mentioned: viz., the bed and its covering, and not the
people to whom it refers. The prophet is speaking of the great fear
which ought to agitate the people of Judea at the speedy coming of
Sennacherib; but they preferred to be left in their false security. By this
beautiful allegorical illustration they are informed that their rest should
be restless, and their sleep should be soon disturbed.

Mat. 3:10; Mat. 3:12 is repeated Hypocatastasis, and therefore
Allegory.
Mat. 5:13 is the same, following on “Ye are the salt of the earth,”
which is Metaphor.
Mat. 7:3-5 is the same; only one thing, the mote and the beam, being
named. What they mean is only implied.
Mat. 9:15 is the same, the meaning being implied.
Mat. 9:16-17.-“The “old piece” on the new implies the solemn lesson
as to the impossibility of reforming the Old nature.
Mat. 12:43-45.-“When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man,” etc.
This is an Allegory. It is to be interpreted of the Jewish nation, as
verse 45 declares. By application also it teaches the unclean spirit’s
going out of his own accord, and not being “cast out” (verse 28, 29).
When he is “cast out,” he never returns; but when he “goes out,” he
comes back; and finds only a “reformed character,” instead of the Holy
Spirit indwelling in the one who is born again.
Luk. 9:62.-“No man having put his hand to the plough, and looking
back, is fit for the kingdom of God.” This is a brief allegory.

For other examples, see Joh. 4:35. Rom. 11:16-18, etc.; 13:11, 12.
10ο. 3:6-8; 1Co. 3:12-15; 1Со. 5:7-8. 2Co. 3:2-3; 2Co. 5:1, etc.;
10:3-5; 11:2. Gal. 6:8. Eph. 6:11, etc.
Parabola; or, Parable: i.e., Continued Simile
Comparison by continued Resemblance
Par-ab’-o-la. Greek, παραβολή (pa-rab’-o-lee), a placing beside for
the purpose of comparison, from παρά (para), beside, and βάλλειν
(ballein), to throw or cast.

The classical use of the word was for one of the subdivisions of
παράδειγµα (paradeigma), an example, viz., a presentation of an
analogous case by way of illustration.

In the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 Б.с.).] it
occurs about thirty times as the translation of 22? (mahshal), and of
no other word: and, if we look at some of the sayings to which the
word “parable” is applied, the meaning which was attached to it will be
clearly seen.
1Sa. 10:12 : We read of “the proverb,” “Is Saul also among the
prophets?” So 1Sa. 24:14 (13): Of “the proverb of the ancients,”
“Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked.” Compare Eze. 12:22; Eze.
16:44; Eze. 18:2. Deu. 28:37. 2Ch. 7:20. Psa. 44:14 (15). Jer. 24:9.
But see below under Parcemia.

Growing out of this came a later meaning of 22? (mahshal) as
used of any saying which required an explanation. We see this as
early as in Eze. 20:47-49.
In the New Testament instances of the word, it is used of a story
with a hidden meaning, without pressing, in every detail, the idea of a
comparison.

As the name of a Figure of Speech, it is limited to what we may
describe as repeated or continued Simile-an illustration by which one
set of circumstances is likened to another. It consists in likeness, not
in representation, and therefore is not a continued Metaphor, as some
have said; but a repeated Simile.

This likeness is generally only in some special point. One person
may be like another in appearance, but not in character, and vice
versa; so that when resemblance or likeness is affirmed it is not to be
concluded that the likeness may be pressed in all points, or extended
to all particulars.

For example, a lion is used as a resemblance of Christ, on account
of his strength and prowess. The Devil is likened to “a lion” because of
his violence and cruelty. Christ is compared to a thief, on account of
his coming, being unexpected; not on account of dishonesty.

The resemblance is to be sought for in the scope of the context,
and in the one great truth which is presented, and the one important
lesson which is taught: and not in all the minute details with which
these happen to be associated.

The interpretation of the parable must be further distinguished
from any application which may be made of it. For example: in the
Parable of the “Ten Virgins” (Mat. 25:1-12), the interpretation belongs
to some special point of time immediately preceding the return of the
Lord to the earth. This is indicated by the word “Then,” with which it
commences, and by its place in relation to the context. Any lesson for
ourselves, as to watchfulness on our part, must come as an
application of it to present circumstances.

So with the parable of the Great Supper (Luk. 14:16-24). The
application to the present time must not blot out the interpretation of it,
which refers to the successive ministries Connected with the
invitations to “the great supper.”

(1) “A certain man” sends “his servant” to those who had been
previously “bidden.” This was Peter’s first ministry (Act. 2:1-47 -vii.).
All excuse themselves.

(2) The “master of the house” sends him again to “the streets and
lanes of the city.” This is Peter’s second ministry (Act. 10:1-48 -xii.).

(3) Then “the lord” sends out another servant to “the highways and
hedges.” This is Paul’s ministry to the great Gentile world (Act.
-xxviii.)

Parables are used from the resemblance of one thing to another.
The thing, or history, or story may be true or imaginary; but the events
must be possible, or likely to have happened; at any rate those who
hear must believe that they are possible events, though it is not
necessary that the speaker should believe them.

Where they are impossible, such as trees or animals speaking and
reasoning, we have Fable; and if the Fable is explained, then we have
Allegory (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). See Jdg. 9:8-15, where we should
have Fable, but for the application of it, which we have in verse 16,
which renders it Allegory.

We do not propose to give even a list of the parables of Scripture,
as they can be so easily and readily found by the reader.
One word of caution, however, we must give: and that is
concerning the object of parables. The common idea is that they are
intended to make things clear and plain. Hence every young minister
and Sunday-school teacher turns to the parables as though they were
the simplest things in the world. Whereas they were spoken that the
truth might be veiled from those who “seeing, see not: and hearing,
hear not.” See Mat. 13:10-17. Hence they are among the most difficult
portions of God’s Word.

Without wearying the student with all the varying definitions and
explanations which Rhetoricians and Divines have given, we add what
is perhaps the best classification of Similitudes, viz.: that by P. Rutilius
Lupus.

|. Paradeigma.
1. Persons without words.
2. Words without persons.
3. Both persons and words.
Il. Parabola or Parable.
1. Icon. Simile forming a complete image.
2. Homeeon. Simile founded on certain points only.
3. Epagoge. Argument from induction.
Apologue; or, Fable
A Fictitious Narrative used for Illustration
Ap‘-o-logue. Greek, ἀπόλογος, from ἁπό (apo), from, and λόγος
(logos), speech (from λέγειν, to speak), a story, tale; and especially a
fable. Latin, FABULA, a fable.

An Apologue (or Fable) differs from a Parable, in that the Parable
describes what is likely or probable, or at any rate what is believed by
the hearers as probable, while the Fable is not limited by such
considerations, and is used of impossiblities, such as trees, or
animals, and inanimate things talking and acting.

The Fable, therefore, is a fictitious narrative intended to illustrate
some maxim or truth.

Jdg. 9:8-15 would be a Fable, were it not explained in verse 16.

As it is, there are no examples of Fable, as such, in the Word of
God.

Parcemia; or, Proverb
A wayside-saying in common use

Par-oi-mi-a. παροιμία, a way-side; from παρά (para), beside, and
οἶμος (oimos), a way or path. Hence Parcemia is a way side saying, a
trite expression, or common remark, a proverb. As we say “a saw” or
adage.

Like Parable, Parcemia is used in the Septuagint Version to
translate the Hebrew word 222 (mahshal). Now this noun 222
(mahshal) belongs to the verb 22? (mahshal), which means to rule,
control, to have, or exercise control.

Hence it is plain that there must be a close connection between “a
rule” and “a proverb.” This connection may be illustrated by our phrase
“a ruling principle”; and by the fact that we might term what we call ‘the
Proverbs of Solomon’ ‘Solomon’s Rules’; since that is just what they
are: rules for guiding life. Indeed, if we ask what is the derivation of the
word “Maxim,” we may find its history not unlike that of Tapoipia in
Greek. It would seem to mean ‘a saying most widely used,’ ‘most in
vogue,’ in the market, by the roadside, and in ordinary life generally.
By degrees, usage separated the words Parable and Paroemia; and
Parable was limited to an illustration; while Paroemia was confined to
what we now call a proverb.

The figure is used, therefore, of any sententious saying, because
these are generally such as control and influence life.

The word Parcemia is used in the New Testament (Joh. 10:6),
where it is rendered “parable”; and in 16:25 (twice), 29, and 2Pe. 2:22,
where it is rendered “Proverb.”
The Latin name for the figure is PROVERBIUM, Proverb. Hence,
the name given to the book of Proverbs,* [Note: See The Names and
Order of the Books of the Old Testament, by the same author and
publisher. Price fourpence.] which consists of collections of such brief
sententious sayings which govern the life and control the walk.

Parcemice or Proverbs occuring in Scripture may be divided into
three classes:-

(1) Those that are quoted as being already in use as such.

(2) Those which, though not quoted as such, were very probably
already in use as proverbial expressions.

(3) Those which appear for the first time in Scripture; but which,
owing to their fulness of meaning and their wide application, have
since passed into general use as proverbial sayings.

1. Parcemice which are quoted as being already in use as such
Gen. 10:9.-“He was a mighty hunter before the Lord: wherefore it is
said, ‘Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before the Lord’ ” (Π.Ν. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ).
Num. 21:27.-“Wherefore they that speak in proverbs say, ‘Come into
Heshbon, Let the city of Sihon be built and prepared,’ ” etc.

Three strophes are given from a popular poem, introduced by the
word “wherefore.”

The first (-27, 28) is an ironical call to the Amorites to rebuild their
city Heshbon, which Israel had destroyed (see verses 25, 26).

The second (verse 29) is a prophecy of Moab’s ruin.

The third (verse 30) is the justification of the woe pronounced in
verse 29.

Verse 30 is obscure, because of the reading of the letter ? in
22? which, according to Massorah, is one of the fifteen cases in
which words, etc., are dotted. The letter (2) ought, therefore, to be
cancelled. In this case 22 (ish), man, is put for 22? (ish), men, and
22222 (vannashsheem), we have laid them waste, would then be
the plural of 22? (isshah): women.

The strophe would then read:-
“We have shot at them,
Heshbon is destroyed even unto Dibon,
The women also even unto Nopha,
And the men even unto Medeba.”* [Note: See Ginsburg’s
Introduction to the Hebrew Bible, pp. 326-328.]
1Sa. 10:12.-"Therefore it became a proverb: ‘Is Saul also among the
prophets?’ ”
1Sa. 24:13.-“As saith the proverb of the ancients, ‘Wickedness
proceedeth from the wicked: but mine hand shall not be upon thee.’ ”
2Sa. 20:18.-“They were wont to speak in old time, saying, ‘They shall
surely ask counsel at Abel’: and so they ended the matter.”
Jer. 31:29.-“In those days they shall say no more, ‘The fathers have
eaten a sour grape, and the children’s teeth are set on edge.’ ”
This is what they did once say. See Eze. 18:2-3.
Eze. 16:44.-“Behold, every one that useth proverbs shall use this
proverb against thee, saying: ‘As is the mother, so is her daughter.’ ”
See 19:2, 3.
Luk. 4:23.-“Ye will surely say unto me this proverb: ‘Physician, heal
thyself ”

This was a well known proverb. It may be found in the Talmud,
“Physician, heal thine own lameness.”* [Note: Beresh. rab. sect. 23,
and in Tanchuma, fol. 4. 2.]

Joh. 1:46 (47).-“Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth?”

This appears from 7:41, 42, 52, to have been a proverb already in
use.

Joh. 4:37.-“And herein is that saying true; ‘One soweth, and another
reapeth.’”
2Pe. 2:22.-“But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb
(Pro. 26:11):

“The dog is turned to his own vomit again;

And the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.”
When we contrast this with 1Pe. 2:25, we see how forcible is the
difference between the saved sinner and the “reformed character.”
The saint may go astray, and the ungodly may reform; but they both
turn again, the one to his Shepherd, and the other to his mire! There is
all the difference in the world between a dirty sheep and a washed
sow! It is not that which goeth into the mouth that defileth the man, but
that which cometh out of the heart (Mat. 15:17-20).

The mouth, dish, or sepulchre, may be cleansed or whitened
without, but within it is all uncleanness (Mat. 23:25-28).

“Man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on
the heart” (1Sa. 16:7).

Truly “the Lord seeth not as man seeth.”

How many hirelings are there who are engaged in merely washing
sows and amusing goats, instead of seeking out and feeding Christ’s
harassed and scattered and famishing sheep, who are at their wits’
end to know where to find a little green grass, or fresh water, which
has not been trodden down with the feet of the goats, or defiled with
the “vomit” of the dogs?
2. Parcemice which, though not quoted as such, were very
probably already in use as proverbial expressions
“Like to a grain of mustard seed” (Mat. 13:31-32; Mat. 17:20. Luk.
17:6). This was doubtless a proverbial saying among the Hebrews
(not the Greeks), to indicate a very small thing: as we say, of rent, etc.,
“a peppercorn.” See Buxtorf Lex. Talmud, under the word 2222, and
above, under Ellipsis and Synecdoche.

“As the sand of the sea,” or “as the sand.” This was used
proverbially, in order to express a vast multitude that could not be
numbered.

See Gen. 22:17; Gen. 32:12; Gen. 41:49. Jos. 11:4. Jdg. 7:12.
1Sa. 13:5. 2Sa. 17:11. 1Ki. 4:20; 1Ki. 4:29 (5:9). Job. 29:18. Psa.
78:27; Psa. 139:18. Isa. 10:22; Isa. 48:19. Jer. 15:8; Jer. 33:22. Hos.
1:10 (2:1). Hab. 1:9. And in the New Testament- Rom. 9:27. Heb.
11:12; and Rev. 20:8. See under Hyperbole.

“As the dust of the earth,” or “dust,” is used proverbially, by
Metonymy (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), for an innumerable multitude.

See Gen. 13:16; Gen. 28:14. Num. 23:10.* [Note: Num. 23:10. The
A.V. renders this “Who can count the dust of Jacob, and the number
the fourth part of Israel.” The R.V. renders the second line, “Or number
the fourth part of Israel’; and in the margin says, “Heb., Or, by
number.” But Dr. Ginsburg points out in his Introduction to the Hebrew
Bible (p. 168), that the word 190m: (umispahr), rendered “and the
number,” is obscure, because the first two letters ог were originally a
separate word, being the abbreviation of the first word of the first line,
viz.: Ol for ‘1, and who. Thus the two lines (dividing the word into two)
are now seen to be a beautiful parallel:-

“Who can count the dust of Jacob?

And who can number the fourth part of Israel?”] 2Ch. 1:9. Job.
22:24; Job. 27:16. Psa. 78:27. Zep. 1:17. Zec. 9:3. See under
Hyperbole.

“As the stars of heaven,” or “as the stars,” is used proverbially to
indicate a vast number that could not be counted.

See Gen. 15:5; Gen. 22:17; Gen. 26:4. Exo. 32:13. Deu. 1:10;
Deu. 10:22; Deu. 28:62. 1Ch. 27:23. Neh. 9:23. Jer. 33:22. Nah. 3:16.
“It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle” (Mat.
19:24. Mar. 10:25. Luk. 18:25). This was a proverbial expression for a
thing very unusual and very difficult. Lightfoot (Ногое Hebraicae)
quotes several examples: from the Talmud,* [Note: Baby1. Berachoth.
fol. 55, 2.] where, concerning dreams, it says “They do not show a
man а palm-tree of gold, nor an elephant going through the eye of a
needle.” The gloss is, “A thing which he was not wont to see, nor
concerning which he had ever thought.” Another example is
given,t [Note: Baba Mezia, fol. 38, 2.] where Rabbi Sheshith
answered R. Areram, disputing with him, and asserting something that
was incongruous of him, and said, “Perhaps thou art one of these
Pombeditha, who can make an elephant pass through the eye of a
needle”: i.e., as the Aruch interprets it, “Who speak things that are
impossible.”

“That strain out a gnat, and swallow a camel” (Mat. 23:24). Not
“straining at a gnat.” See Buxtorf in Lex. Talmud, under 222.

“With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again”
(Mat. 7:2). This was a very common proverb among the Jews, See
Bab. Sanhedrim, fol. 100, 1, and the Tract Sotah cap. 1, quoted by
Lightfoot.
“Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye,” etc. (Mat. 7:4).
Lightfoot quotes from the Baba Bathra, fol. 15, 2, a well known
proverb: “It is written in the days when they judged the judges (i.e., in
the generation which judged their judges), When any [judge] said to
another ‘Cast out the mote out of thine eye,’ he answered, ‘Cast you
out the beam out of your own eye,’ ” etc.

“There shall not an hair of your head perish,” etc. (Luk. 21:18. Act.
27:34; and, in the Old Testament, 1Sa. 14:45. 2Sa. 14:11. 1Ki. 1:52.
Compare also Mat. 10:30.

“Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased: and he that shall
humble himself shall be exalted” (Mat. 23:12. Luk. 14:11). Many
similar sayings might be quoted from the Talmud. See Erubim, cap. i.
Indeed, it was very ancient. See Job. 5:11; Job. 22:29. Psa. 18:27
(28); 113:6 (7). Pro. 29:23, and the song of Hannah (1Sa. 2:6-8), and
of Mary (Luk. 1:52:53).

“Shake off the dust of your feet” (Mat. 10:14. Mar. 6:11. Luk. 9:5.
And Act. 13:51). The schools of the Scribes taught that the dust of
heathen lands caused defilement.{ [Note: Tosaph. ad Kelim, cap, 1.
Bah. Sanhedr., fol. 12. 1. Bab. Shabb, fol. 15. 2. Gloss in Sanhedr.,
fol. 5. 2. Tosaph. in Sanhedr., cap. 1, article 30, quoted by Lightfoot.]
The shaking off of the dust of the feet, therefore, was a sign that,
though the place might be in the land of Israel, it was as though it
were a heathen and profane and defiled place.

“It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and the
servant as his lord,” etc. (Mat. 10:25. Luk. 6:40. Joh. 13:16).* [Note:
See the Talmud. Berachoth, cap. 9 and Chusar, cap. 20. Also Aben
Ezra on Hos. 1:2.]

“Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation,” etc.
(Mat. 12:25. Mar. 3:24-25. Luk. 11:17. (See Buxtorf. Lex. Talmud,
under 222).

“To remove mountains” (Mat. 21:21._1Co. 13:2) was a Hebrew
proverb, as may be seen in Buxtorf. Lex. Ta/mud, under 222. It was
common to say of a great teacher that he was “a rooter up of
mountains.” (See Bab. Berachoth, fol. 64. 1; Erubim, fol. 29. 1;
Sanhedrim, fol. 24. 1; Baba Bathra, fol. 3. 2). And thus what they
foolishly said of the learning of their wisest men, Christ said of His
humblest disciple. In 1Co. 13:2, knowledge and faith are combined by
this Parcemia.
“Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to
them: for this is the Law and the Prophets” (Mat. 7:12. Luk. 6:31. (See
Talmud, Bab. Sabbath, fol. 31.1, and Buxtorf. Lex. Talmud, under
22%),

“To unloose the shoe-latchet” (Mat. 3:11. Mar. 1:7. Luk. 3:16) was
a proverb connected with the buying of a servant: the loosening of the
shoe being a token of purchase. See Rth. 4:7-8; and Bah. Kiddushin,
fol. 22. 2, cap. 1.

“If they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the
dry?” (Luk. 23:31), or better (comparing Mat. 3:10 : “Now, also the axe
is laid unto the root of the trees.”)

“If to a green tree, these things they are doing;
To the dry tree, what shall happen?’t [Note: Talmud

Sanhedrim, quoted by Drusius.]

Le., if they deal thus with Me, a green and flourishing Tree, what
shall happen to the nation-a dry and sapless trunk, when the Romans
shall presently lay their axe to it? (See Psa. 1:1-6, and Jer. 17:5-8).

“It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks” (Act. 9:5; Act. 26:14.
This was a proverb common among the Greeks as well as the
Hebrews.

3. Parcemice which appear for the first time in Scripture; but, which,
owing to their fulness of meaning and their wide application, have
since passed into general use as proverbial sayings
Gen. 22:14.-“As it is said to this day, ‘In the mount of the Lord it shall

be seen.’”
Deu. 25:4 is a Scripture which afterward became a proverb, because
it is a brief sententious saying with many applications. “Thou shalt not
muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn (marg. [Note: arg.
Margin.] , Heb. thresheth). See 1Co. 9:9 and 1Ti. 5:18.
1Ki. 8:46. 2Ch. 6:36.-“For there is no man that sinneth not.” This
became a proverb on account of its great truth, as may be seen from
Pro. 20:9. Ecc. 7:20. Jam. 3:2. 1Jn. 1:8; 1Jn. 1:10.
1Ki. 20:11.-This also has come down to, and is used by posterity as a
proverb, full of meaning, and with many applications:

“Let not him that girdeth on his harness

Boast himself as he that putteth it off.”
Job. 6:5.-“Doth the wild ass bray when he is at grass? or loweth the
ox over his fodder?” (See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin).

Job. 14:19.-“The waters wear the stones.”

Job. 28:18.-“The price of wisdom is above rubies.”

Psa. 62:9.-“Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high
degree are a lie: to be laid in the balance they are altogether lighter
than vanity.”

Psa. 111:10.-“The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.” So
Deu. 4:6. Job. 28:28. Pro. 1:7; Pro. 9:10. Ecc. 12:13. Probably the first
use is in Job. 28:28, but it passed into a common proverb.

Pro. 1:17.-“Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird.”
Pro. 1:32.-“The prosperity of fools shall destroy them.”

Pro. 3:12.-“For whom the Lord loveth He correcteth: even as a father
the son in whom he delighteth.” Here we have a Simile as well. It is
referred to in Heb. 12:5-6. See also Job. 5:17. Psa. 94:12, and Rev.
3:19.

Pro. 6:6.-“Go to the ant, thou sluggard: consider her ways and be
wise.” Compare Job. 12:7.
Pro. 6:27.-“Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be
burned?” This is doubtless a saying arising from common observation
of daily life.
Pro. 10:5.-“He that gathereth in summer is a wise son.”
Pro. 10:13.-“А rod is for the back of him who is void of understanding.”
So Pro. 26:3.

Verse 19: “In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin.”
Pro. 11:15.-“He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it.” Heb.
shall be sore broken (so A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin). The common experience of
this fact has made this a common proverb; but they are blessed
indeed who learn and know from a happy experience that when Christ
became Surety for His People, who were “strangers,” He smarted for
it, and was “sore broken” that they might be for ever blessed.
Pro. 22:6.-“Train up a child in the way he should go.”

Few proverbs have passed more into common use than this. Mr.
C. H. Spurgeon once put it, “in the way you wish you had gone
yourself.” See under Pleonasm and Metonymy.
Pro. 26:11.-“As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his
folly.”

This is also a simile, which passed into a proverb. See 2Pe. 2:22,
quoted and referred to above.
Pro. 27:6.-‘Faithful are the wounds of a friend.”

Verse 7: “The full soul loatheth the honeycomb.”

Verse 17: “As iron sharpeneth iron,” etc.
Pro. 28:21.-“То have respect of persons is not good.”

See Synecdoche, and Pro. 18:5; Pro. 24:23.
Ecc. 1:15.-“That which is crooked cannot be made straight.” Ecc.
7:13. Job. 12:14. Isa. 14:27.

This perhaps gave rise to another expressive Hebrew proverb:
“You cannot straighten a pig's tail.”
Ecc. 1:18.-“For in much wisdom is much grief.” So Ecc. 12:12.
Ecc. 9:4.-“For a living dog is better than a dead lion.”
Ecc. 10:1.-“Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send
forth a stinking savour.”

See under Ellipsis.
Ecc. 11:6.-“In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold
not thine hand.”
Jer. 13:23.-“Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his
spots?”
Jer. 23:28.-“What is the chaff (Heb., straw) to the wheat?”
Hab. 2:6.-“Shall not all these take up a parable against him, and a
taunting proverb against him, and say, ‘Woe to him that increaseth that
which is not his! How long? and to him that ladeth himself with thick
clay’ ” (see R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).
Mal. 2:10.-“Have we not all one father?” The Jews used this proverb
in their controversy with the Lord in Joh. 8:33; Joh. 8:39, etc.
Mat. 5:13.-“If the salt have lost his savour (or taste) wherewith shall it
be salted?”
Mat. 5:14.-“A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid.”
Mat. 6:3.-“Let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth.”
Mat. 6:21.-“Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.”
Greek, “there will your heart also be,” with emphasis on “heart.” (See
Metonymy).
Mat. 6:24.-“No man can serve two masters.” See Hermeneia.

Verse 34: “Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.”
Mat. 7:16.-“Ye shall know them by their fruits.”

These words were first used by the Lord concerning false
teachers. But to-day the saying has passed into general use, and is
spoken (not so correctly) of every one.

Mat. 9:12.-“They that be whole need not a physician.”

Mat. 10:10.-“The workman is worthy of his meat.” So Luk. 10:7. 1Co.
9:7, etc.

Verse 22: “He that endureth to the end shall be saved.” This
Paroemia is further used Dan. 12:12. Mat. 24:13. Mar. 13:13, etc. and
refers to the faithful remnant of Jews enduring to the end of the
coming “great tribulation.” The τέλος (telos), end, should be
distinguished from the συντέλεια (sunteleia), which is also translated
end.
The latter word is used of the time of the end, while the former
(telos) is used of the end or crisis of the sunteleia. The sunteleia refers
to the consummation of all the ages and dispensations; a joining
together of the ages, or ends, as it were, and is used of the whole time
of the “great tribulation”; while the {είος is the point of time at the end
of it. It is of this point that this saying is used: “He that endureth to the
end (fe/os) shall be saved (or delivered).”

The word συντέλεια (sunteleia) occurs only in Mat. 13:39-40; Mat.
13:49; Mat. 24:3; Mat. 28:20, and Heb. 9:26. It will be easy, therefore,
for the student to distinguish it from τέλος (telos), which is used in the
other passages.

Mat. 12:34.-“For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth
speaketh.”

Mat. 13:57.-“A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country
and in his own house.”

Mat. 15:14.-“If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.”
Mat. 24:28.-“For wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be
gathered together.” The word “for” introduces the Paroemia, which is
from Job. 39:30. “Her young ones suck up blood: and where the slain
are, there is she.” Had this Parcemia been understood, and the title
“Son of Man” noticed as referring to Christ’s title as exercising
dominion in the Earth,* [Note: See The Divine Names and Titles, by
the same author and publisher. One shilling.] these words would
never have been interpreted of the church as the “Body” of Christ.
Luk. 17:37 clearly shows that it is a time of judgment (see verses
24-37); and that the taking and the /eaving refer to judgment, and not
to the Rapture of 1Th. 4:17; which was a subsequent revelation, and
ought not to be read into the Gospels, which are perfectly clear
without it.

Mar. 9:50.-See Mat. 5:13.

Luk. 17:37.-See Mat. 24:28 above.

Act. 9:5.-“It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks”: i.e., the goads.
Act. 20:35.-“It is more blessed to give than to receive.” This is one of
the un-recorded Paroemice or Logia of Christ. But it does not follow
that a papyrus which professes, some centuries later, to give other
Parcemice is genuine and authentic.

1Co. 5:6.-“А little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.” Leaven is always
used in a bad sense. Even in the case of one of the two wave-loaves,
leaven was to be used because that loaf represented human nature;
while the other loaf which represented Christ's perfect nature had no
leaven.
See other examples of such Proverbs in Pro. 11:27; Pro. 12:11;
Pro. 12:15; Pro. 15:2; Pro. 15:33; Pro. 17:1; Pro. 17:10; Pro. 17:19;
Pro. 17:28; Pro. 19:2; Pro. 19:24; Pro. 20:4; Pro. 20:11; Pro. 20:14;
Pro. 20:21; Pro. 20:25; Pro. 22:13; Pro. 25:11; Pro. 25:16; Pro. 25:27;
Pro. 26:4-5 (see under Ellipsis), 14; 27:8, 10, 22; 30:15, etc., etc. Ecc.
4:5; Ecc. 4:12; Ecc. 5:2; Ecc. 5:6; Ecc. 5:8-10; Ecc. 6:9; Ecc. 9:18;
Ecc. 10:2; Ecc. 10:8-9; Ecc. 10:15; Ecc. 10:19-20; Ecc. 11:3-4; Ecc.
11:7; Ecc. 12:12. Mic. 7:5-6. Mat. 5:15; Mat. 7:2; Mat. 7:5; Mat. 9:16;
Mat. 10:24; Mat. 10:26; Mat. 13:12. Luk. 9:62; Luk. 12:48; Luk. 23:31.
1Co. 10:12; 10ο. 15:33. 2Co. 9:6-7. 2Th. 3:10. Tit. 1:15

Non-Canonical, or, Supposed Scripture, Proverbs
There are many common sayings which are supposed to be in
Scripture, even by those who should know better; and pass current
among those who are ill-informed. For example-

“God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.”
This is not in the Bible; but is taken from Laurence-Sterne’s
Sentimental Journey. And he took it probably from the French of Henri
Etienne, Dieu mesure le froid x la brebis tondue. And both may have
been acquainted with Isa. 27:8 : “He stayeth his rough wind in the day
of his east wind.”

“Spare the rod and spoil the child.”

Many use this, thinking it is Scripture. Even Butler, in his Hudibras,
says: “That may be heard ten times to one quotation of Solomon.” And
yet Solomon said: “He that spareth the rod hateth his son” (Pro.
13:24).

“A word to the wise is sufficient.” (Sometimes “for them” is added,
whereas it is singular, not plural).

This has been quoted as Scripture. But it is from the Latin of
Terence* [Note: Phormio, Act. 3:1-26 sc. 3. 5:8. In Parry's edition of
Terence, he says in a note that the Proverb is found in Plautus Persa
4:7. 18.] ; who himself is misquoted; for he said: “Dictum sapienti sat
est,” not Verbum sat sapienti.

It is said that the celebrated Robert Hall once planned a sermon
on the words
“In the midst of life we are in death,”

But he abandoned it, we are told, when he found that it was not to
be found in the Bible; but only in the Prayer-book.

It appears to have come from a monk of St. Gall, named Notker, in
the tenth century, whose Latin hymn contained the line: “Media vita in
morte sumus.”

Misquoted Proverbial Sayings
Even in quoting common sayings from Scripture and the Prayer Book,
which have passed into Proverbs, there is an habitual misquotation
which has become practically universal. It may not be out of place to
give one or two examples by way of warning.

“Man is prone to sin as the sparks fly upward.” But Job. 5:7 says:
“Man is born unto trouble,” etc.

“A still small voice” is generally quoted as “the still small voice”
(Ki. 19:12)

“A merciful man is merciful to his beast.” But Pro. 12:10 has it: “A
righteous man regardeth the life of his beast.”
“The truth as it is in Jesus” is almost invariably thus quoted. The
Scripture says (Eph. 4:21): “As the truth is in Jesus,” which is a very
different thing. The former implies that there is truth apart from Him.
But the latter implies that the truth is in Jesus, and nowhere else.

“A nation shall be born in a day.” No concordance will give this
passage. Isa. 66:8 asks: “Shall the earth be made to bring forth in one
day? or shall a nation be born at once?”

“So plain that he who runs may read.” On the contrary. So plain
was to be the written vision that he who reads it may run, and flee
from the coming judgments (Hab. 2:2).

“My time is in thy hand.” Thank God, He said “times” (Psa. 31:15
(16)). Yes, “My times are always in thy hand.” All my times: my times
of sorrow and of joy; of trouble and of danger. All are in the hand of my
God.* [Note: Shakespeare is misquoted in the other direction. He said:
“The time is out of joint,” not the times are out of joint. The next line
would set people right, for he says:-

“The time is out of joint;-O cursed spite!

That | was born to set it right.”
(Hamlet, Acti. sc. 4, at the close).

So Cowper: “The cups that cheer,” not cup. (See his Task, 4:39,
40).]

“Let him cast the first stone.” But Joh. 8:7 says: “He that is without
sin among you, let him first cast a stone.”

“How great a fire a little matter kindleth.” But in Jam. 3:5 it is
written: “Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth.”
The Apostolic benediction (2Co. 13:14) suffers from various
changes: fellowship, instead of communion; or, in addition to it, as
though they were two different things: rest upon and abide; be and
abide: for ever; now, henceforth, and for ever; now and for ever. And
these are supposed to improve the words of the Holy Spirit! That such
attempted improvement of Scripture meets with no check is a sad sign
of the low regard in which its accuracy is held.

Type
A figure or ensample of something future and more or less prophetic,
called the “Antitype”
Type. Greek, τύπος (typos). The verb τύπτειν (tuptein), to strike, make
an impress. Hence Type means primarily a blow; then, the impress or
mark left by a blow; then, a mark, print, or impress of any kind.

In the New Testament the word occurs in several of these senses.

It is rendered:-
1. Α print or mark (Joh. 20:25).* [Note: The second occurrence
in this verse is read OU, the place, by Lachmann, Tischendorf,
Tregelles (margin).]

2. Figure (Act. 7:43. Rom. 5:14).

3. Form (Rom. 6:17).

4. Fashion (Act. 7:44).

5. Manner (Act. 23:25).

6. Pattern (Tit. 2:7. Heb. 8:5).

7. Ensample (10ο. 10:11. Php. 3:17. 1Th. 1:7).¢ [Note:
According to the best texts, this is singular, as in R.V., not
plural.] 2Th. 3:9. 1Pe. 5:3

8. Example (1Co. 10:6. 1Ti. 4:12).

The Greeks used it of the symptoms of a disease. Galen wrote a
medical work entitled περὶ τῶν τύπων, concerning symptoms. In a
Legal sense it was used of what we technically cite as a “case.”

It will thus be seen that the special and technical sense which has
been given to it by Theologians is not exactly equivalent to any of
these usages: the nearest being Rom. 5:14, where Adam is spoken of
as a type of the Coming One.

The theological use of the word agrees more with what in the New
Testament is called σκιά (skia), a shadow (Heb. 10:1-39 i. Col. 2:17).

There is, therefore, not much profit in following out what have been
called types by men. Many are merely illustrations; and it would be
better so to call them; inasmuch as they did not and do not of
themselves teach the truths, but only illustrate those truths which are
elsewhere clearly revealed. We should never have called them types
but for such subsequent revelation; and therefore they are only
illustrations so far as their teaching agrees with clear revelation
afterward made.

Symbol
A material Object substituted for a moral or spiritual Truth
Greek, σύμβολον (symbolon), from σύν (syn), together, and βάλλειν
(ballein), to cast; hence a casting together. Used by the Greeks, much
in the same way as we use the word “coupon,” where one part
corresponded with or represented another part. Hence, in language,
the use of one thing to represent another; or, the use of a material
object to represent a moral or spiritual truth.

The word does not occur in the New Testament, and nothing is
said in Scripture as to one thing being so used. The assertion as to
anything being a symbol of another rests entirely on human authority,
and depends for its accuracy on its agreement with the teaching of
Scripture.

The nearest word to symbol is mystery; and, by the Fathers,
µυστήριον was used as being synonymous with σύμβολον.

Μυστήριον (mysteerion) means secret; * [Note: See The Mystery,
by the same author and publisher.] and later it came to mean a secret
sign or symbol. Justin Martyr (A.D. 148) sayst [Note: Apology, i. 27.]
that in all false religions the serpent was represented as “a great
symbol and mystery.”
Speaking of Isa. 7:14, “Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a
son,” he says, “since this refers to the house of David, Isaiah has
explained how that which was spoken by God to David, ἐν μυστηρίῳ
(en mysteerio), in a mystery, would actually come to pass. Perhaps,”
he adds, “you are not aware, my friends, of this-that there were many
sayings written ἐπικεκαλυμμένως (epikekalummenés), obscurely; or,
ἐν. παραβολαῖς (en parabolais), in parables; or, µυστηρίοις
(mysteeriois), in secret signs; or, ἐν συµβόλοις (en symbolois), in
symbols; which the prophets, who lived after the persons who said or
did them, expounded.”$ [Note: Trypho, ο. 68.]

Thus it will be seen that symbol is practically synonymous with the
latter use of mystery as meaning a secret sign. It is only two or three
times so used in Scripture:-In Rev. 1:20, the stars which John saw
were a mystery: i.e., secret sign (or symbol); and in Rev. 17:5; Rev.
17:7, Babylon is said to be а mysteerion (or symbol): /.е., a secret sign
of something spiritual and moral which it represented.

Eph. 5:32 shows us that it was also synonymous with the Latin
sacramentum, which is there used to represent the Greek mysteerion.
So that the sacramentum of the Latin Vulgate meant simply a symbol.

Sacramentum is said to have reference to a military oath, but it
must have been only because of some secret sign used in connection
with the administration of the oath. From this it is clear that “the
sacrament’ so called is only a secret sign or symbol of spiritual truths
and acts or events which it is used to commemorate.

Doubtless there are many symbols in the Scriptures, but great
care and caution must be exercised in their interpretation. The
different interpretations which have been given to the same so-called
symbol, are sufficient to serve as a warning.

All Metonymies (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) are, in a certain sense,
symbols. When, for example, “cup” is used, by Metonymy, for blessing
(Psa. 16:5; Psa. 116:13); or, “clay” for man (Isa. 64:8 (7)); or, “gate” for
entrance, etc., the one is practically a symbol of the other: and when
by repeated and constant use the one gets to be more and more
closely associated with the other, it is then used as a symbol of it and
is substituted for it. The transition stage is Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note:
Which зее.] ) or Implication.

The stages by which a symbol is reached, therefore, are: (1) either
by Metonymy or Metaphor, one thing is used to represent another;
then (2) the one is used to imply the other; and finally (3) it becomes
permanently substituted for it as a symbol of it.

Thus, with regard to “leaven,” we have first the thing itself causing
fermentation, and therefore forbidden to be used in connection with
any sacrifice or offering to the Lord. Then it is used by Metonymy for
that which is corrupt (1Co. 5:6-8). Then by /mplication for corrupt or
evil doctrine (Mat. 16:6). And finally it is used as the permanent
symbol of it (Mat. 13:33). Indeed, “leaven” is always used in a bad
sense, and of that which is corrupt. In the case of the two wave-
loaves, where leaven was to be put into one and not into the other, the
exception is significant, and proves the rule. For one represented
Christ, and the other His People.
In the same way, “key” is used as a symbol of power and authority,
and especially the power of opening and closing (Rev. 1:18; Rev. 3:7.
Isa. 22:22). In Mat. 16:19, the power and authority of opening the
doors of the kingdom were committed to Peter, and he exercised that
commission in making the final offer of the Messiah to the nation of
Israel (Act. 2:1-47 -viii., and x.). Observe, that they were the keys of
the Kingdom, not of the church; and that he was altogether
incompetent and unable to transfer that power and authority to others.

It is scarcely necessary for us to attempt to say more with regard
to symbols. The subject would form a work by itself; and, indeed,
many works have been written upon it. We can only repeat our caution
as to their use.

nigma; or, Dark Saying
A. Truth expressed in obscure Language
E-nig’-ma. Greek, αἴνιγμα (ai-nig-ma), from αἰνίσσεσθαι (ainissesthai),
to tell a strange tale, then to speak darkly or in riddles. Hence an
enigma is a dark or obscure saying, a puzzling statement or action. A
statement of which the meaning has to be searched for in order to be
discovered.

Enigma thus differs from Parable, in that the latter is generally
explained. When a Parable is without any explanation, it may be
called an Enigma, i.e., a dark or obscure saying.

See Psa. 78:2 quoted in Mat. 13:35. The “dark saying” of the Old
Testament is 2222 (cheedah); from 22? (chood), to tie in a knot, to
twist: a knotty or intricate saying.

It is rendered dark saying three times (Psa. 49:4 (5); 78:2. Pro.
1:6); dark sentence, once (Dan. 8:23); dark speech, once (Num. 12:8);
hard question, twice (1Ki. 10:1. 2Ch. 9:1); proverb, once (Hab. 2:6);
riddle, nine times (Jdg. 14:12-19. Eze. 17:2).

When the saying is very obscure indeed, it is called

HYPNIGMA, i.e., the same word, with the preposition ὑπό (hypo)
prefixed, meaning under, i.e., а saying deep as well as dark.

Also HYPNIXIS, from ὑπό (hypo), under, and αἰνισσομαι
(ainissomai), to speak darkly. Hence, a speaking beneath: i.e., having
another meaning beneath what is actually said.
When the Enigma is connected with the names of persons or
places, it is known by the name Polyonymia. (See the next Figure).
There are sayings dark and deep in the Scriptures beside those
that are actually so designated.
Gen. 49:10 is in the form of Enigma. “The sceptre shall not depart
from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come;
and unto him shall the gathering of the people be.” See under
Metonymy.
Jdg. 14:14.-Samson’s Enigma is well known.
“Out of the eater came forth meat,
And out of the strong came forth sweetness.”
The answer is given in verse 18, in the form of another question
(See Anteisagoge):
“What is sweeter than honey?
And what is stronger than a lion?”
This is a saying both “dark” and “deep”: for there is precious truth
hidden in that darkness and those depths, which neither the Philistines
nor the natural man can understand or receive.

The Living Word (Christ) is stronger than the strong man armed
(Mat. 12:29. Mar. 3:27. Luk. 12:21-22). For the Lion means in Hebrew
the strong one.

The Written Word (the Scriptures of truth) are sweeter than honey
(Psa. 119:103; Psa. 19:10 (11). Jer. 15:16).

All who know this blessed deliverance which the great Deliverer
brings, cry out in the words of Psa. 35:10, “Lord, who is like unto thee,
which deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the
poor and needy from him that spoileth him?” (See Erotesis and
Prosopopeosia).

The Law was a strong Lion (Gal. 3:10): but the honey is found in
verse 13.
Sin is a strong Lion (Rom. 5:21): but the honey is found in Rom.
6:6; Rom. 7:18-25. And 1Co. 15:56-57.

The World is a strong Lion (Luk. 8:14. Gal. 5:21): but the honey is
found in Joh. 16:33.

Affliction is a strong Lion (Job. 5:6-7; Job. 14:1-2. Act. 14:22): but
the honey is found in Psa. 119:67; Psa. 119:71; Psa. 34:19 (20). Rom.
8:35-39. Heb. 12:11.

Death is a strong Lion (Rom. 5:12. Heb. 9:27): but the honey is
found in 2Ti. 1:10. Hos. 13:14, and 1Co. 15:54-55.

The answer to these Enigmas is found in Psa. 73:16-17, “When |
thought to know this it was too painful for me; Until | went into the
sanctuary of God. Then understood I.”

Isa. 11:1 is a dark saying, and has to be interpreted by what follows.
Isa. 21:11-12, is another dark saying.

Eze. 17:2-10 gives a prophecy concerning the King of Babylon’s
coming to Jerusalem, and leading it into captivity, under the Enigma of
two Eagles.

Dan. 5:25-28.-The handwriting on the wall is given in the form of an
Enigma, in which the immediate fall of Babylon was announced.
Three words were written, the first twice (by Epizeuxis, q.v. [Note:
Which зее.] ), for emphasis.
22? Mineh.NUMBERED.
Tkel.
WEIGHED.
Pres.
DIVIDED.

These three words are interpreted by Daniel in verses 26-28, and
the fulfilment of them follows in verses 30, 31. See under
Paronomasia.

Polyonymia; or, Many Names
An Application of nigma to the Names of Persons or Places
Pol’-y-6-nym’-i-a. Greek, πολυωνυμµία having many names, or more
than one name: from πολύς (polys), many, and ὄνομα (onoma), a
name.

It is not uncommon for persons or places to be known by different

names.
In Mat. 15:39, for example, there is no Enigma, but merely a case
of two names for the same place: “The coasts of Magdala.” In Mar.
8:10, it is called “The parts of Dalmanutha,” Dalmanutha being the
name of the region and Magdala of the city. The former was general,
the latter was special.

In Mat. 8:28, the people are called Gergesenes; and in Luk. 8:26,
and Mar. 5:1, Gadarenes. Some suppose that these were either
different names of the same place, or two places forming one larger
place. It is a question also as to whether precisely the same event is
described in these places, or whether two similar events took place at
two different times.

So with the names of Esau’s wives, which have formed a great
subject for the attention of infidels.

It is clear from a comparison of Gen. 26:34; Gen. 28:9, that Esau’s
wives were three in number:

1. “The daughter of Elon the Hittite”; called Adah (Gen. 36:2); but
she also had another name, Bashemath (Gen. 26:34).

2. “The daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite”; called
Aholibamah (Gen. 36:2); but not the Aholibamah of verse 25, who was
her aunt (compare verses 2 and 25). She was called also Judith, and
in 26:34 this Judith is said to be the daughter of Beeri the Hittite. But
there is no contradiction in this, for Anah appears to have been called
Beeri, or the Spring-man, because he discovered the “hot-springs”
(see Gen. 36:24)* [Note: So the R.V., 2222 (Hay-ye-meem), from
22? (Hoom), to put in commotion, agitate (Deu. 7:23. Mic. 2:12. Psa.
55:3). The Syriac has “waters.” “Mules” are always 22222
(Pharahdeem), (2Sa. 13:29; 2Sa. 18:9. 1Ki. 10:25. 2Ki. 5:17. Psa.
32:9, etc.). The A.V. Translators followed an error of the Talmud.
Moreover, 222 (matzah), to find, means to happen on, not to invent.]
; not “mules,” as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.]
It is true that in Gen. 36:2, Anah, alias Beeri, is called “the Hivite,”
while in Gen. 26:34, he is called “the Hittite.” The latter is history, and
is therefore general; the former is genealogy, and is therefore more
precise. “Hittite” is the general term; “Hivite” is the special and more
particular term (compare Jos. 1:4. 1Ki. 10:29. 2Ki. 7:6; and Gen. 28:8,
when Esau’s Hittite wives are spoken of as “daughters of Canaan’).

3. The third wife was “the daughter of Ishmael,” and was called
Bashemath (Gen. 36:2), and Mahalath (Gen. 28:8).

When three persons are so carefully and minutely described, it is
preposterous for anyone to create a difficulty about the similar names,
when down to our own day precisely the same phenomenon
constantly occurs.

But this feature of Polyonymia is not what we are describing and
discussing here. There is no Enigma in these common aliases.

It is only when another name is given, because of some special
meaning, “dark” or “deep” in it, that it becomes a Figure, being used in
a figurative sense, having some important signification beyond what
appears upon the surface.

Gen. 10:10; Gen. 11:2.-“The Land of Shinar” is another name for
Babel or Babylon. Babylon must be intended by “the land of Shinar.” in
the prophecy of the “Ephah” (Zec. 5:11). Had the name Babylon been
used here it might have been urged that it was put by Enigma for
some other place; but, when “the land of Shinar” is used for Babylon it
can hardly be that, after this, Babylon can be used for some other
name by a double use of the figure.

Deu. 1:2; Deu. 1:44; Deu. 2:8, etc.-Edom is called Seir, and this was
afterwards known in the Jerusalem Targum as 2222, Gabla or
Gebal.

We have the name in Psa. 83:6 (7). “Gebal, and Ammon, and
Amelek”: i.e., Edom, Ammon, and Amelek-three of Israel's greatest
enemies at critical moments in the history of the Nation.
2Ki. 23:13.-The Mount of Olives is called “the mount of corruption,”
because of the idolatries connected with it.

Psa. 87:4; Psa. 89:10 (11). Isa. 51:9.-Egypt is called Rahab on
account of its pride 620, Rachab, having this signification). This
judgment of Egypt is in Isa. 30:1-14.
Isa. 14:4.-The Antichrist is called “the King of Babylon,” because he is
the end and final outcome of Babel.
Isa. 29:1.-Jerusalem is called Ariel, which means the Lion of God. It is
so called to denote its greatness, glory, and strength (cf. [Note: f.
Compare (for Latin, confer).] 258. 23:20. 1Ch. 14:22), and is thus put
in contrast with the woe here pronounced against it. (See under
Ellipsis, page 5).

Jer. 25:26.-“And the king of Sheshach shall drink after them.” Here
Sheshach is put for Babylon.

The subject is the cup of the fury of the God of Israel (verse 15).
Four classes of nations were to drink of it, and all at one time. (1)
Jerusalem and the cities of Judah (18). (2) Egypt, etc. (19). (3) The
mingled nations (20-22), and (4) the nations further off (23-25), and,
finally, “the king of Sheshach.” In Jeremiah “the times of the Gentiles”
are not within the scope of his prophecy. Nor in Ezekiel. Daniel, on the
other hand, fills in these present times, and makes but little reference
to what goes before or comes after, as in Jeremiah and Ezekiel.
The point is that the judgment of these nations takes place all at
the same time with that of “the king of Sheshach,” and that time is
veiled in the Enigma contained in this peculiar name. Babylon is
meant; and, according to the ancient Kabbalah, the last letter of the
alphabet was put for the first, and the penultimate for the second, and
the antepenultimate for the third, and so on. By which Enigma the
word “Sheshach” (029) spells Babel (29). So that the final
judgment upon the nations is yet future, when Babylon shall have
been restored, and when “Great Babylon” “comes into remembrance.”
See further under Paronomasia and Amphibologia.

Eze. 23:4.-Jerusalem is called “Aholibah”: i.e., my tabernacle is in her.
While Samaria (Israel) is called Aholah: i.e., his (own) tabernacle.
There is a depth of meaning, therefore, in each name.

Hos. 4:15; Hos. 10:5.-Bethel (the house of God, Gen. 28:19; Gen.
28:22) was made, by Jeroboam, a house of his idol (1Ki. 12:29).
Hence, God gives it another name, and calls it Beth-Aven: i.e., the
house of vanity.
Gnome; or, Quotation
6Πό΄-ππεθ. Greek, γνώµη, knowledge, understanding; also a means of
knowing. From γνῶναι (gnénai), to know.

Hence, the term Gnome is given to the citation of brief,
sententious, profitable sayings expressive of a universal maxim or
sentiment which appertains to human affairs, cited as well-known, or
as being of general acceptance, but without quoting the author’s
name.

In Pro. 1:2, they are called “words of understanding.” The
Scriptures, as Bengel remarks, are so “full of the best things, that
these constitute, as it were, certain continued sentiments openly set
forth in the form of gnomes.”

When these are applied to a certain person, time, or place; or to
individual cases; or are clothed with circumstantial particulars, the
figure is called NOEMA, vonua (no-ee-ma), (plural, NOEMATA), {9.,
sense, thought, that which is thought, from νοεῖν, to perceive.

When the author’s name is given, the figure is called CHREIA,
xpeia, chree’-a, use, usage, or usance, (from χράοµαι, chraomai, to
use).
For the Greek name of the figure Gnome the Latins substituted
SENTENTIA (sen-ten-ti-a), sentiment, or a sententious saying; a
philosophic aphorism, maxim, or axiom, which is quoted on account of
its application to the subject in hand.
These are exactly what are referred to in Ecc. 12:11.
“The words of the wise
Are as goads;
And as tent-pegs well fixed are

[The words] of the masters of assemblies.* [Note: See under
Ellipsis, page 74.]

A Gnome, however, differs from a Proverb in this: that every
Proverb is a Gnome, but every Gnome is not necessarily a Proverb. A
Gnome is, properly speaking, a quotation: and therefore this figure
opens up the whole question of the Quotations from the Old
Testament in the New.

This is a large subject, many volumes having been written upon it,
both in ancient and in recent times.
It is also a difficult subject, owing to certain phenomena which lie
upon its surface.

It is a fact that there are variations between the quotations and the
Text quoted from.

Sometimes they agree with the Septuagint translation, and differ
from the Hebrew, and vice versa; and sometimes they differ from both.

Sometimes they are direct quotations; at other times they are
composite quotations of several passages joined in one; while others
are mere allusions.

Consequently it is difficult for anyone to make a list or table of such
quotations which shall agree with those made by others.
The general fact seems to be that there are 189 separate
passages quoted* [Note: If it is merely a reference or allusion, as
distinct from a quotation, then there are many more, of course. The
Lord Jesus Himself referred to 22 out of our 39 Old Testament books.

In Matthew there are references to 88 passages in 10 Old
Testament books. In Mark to 37 passages in 10 books. In Luke to 58
passages in 8 books. In John to 40 passages in 6 books.

Deuteronomy and Isaiah, the two books most assailed by the
Higher Critics, are referred to more often than any other Old
Testament books. While Revelation contains no less than 244
references to 25 Old Testament books.

In Romans there are 74 references. Corinthians, 54. Galatians, 16.
Ephesians, 10. Hebrews, 85.

In all, out of 260 chapters in the New Testament, there are 832
quotations, or references, or allusions to the Old Testament
Scriptures.

Every Old Testament book is referred to with the exception of
Ezra, Neh. Est., and Canticles.
The Apocryphal books are not referred to at all.] in the New
Testament, according to Spearman’s reckoning:t [Note: Letters to a
friend. Edinburgh, 1759.] i.e., counting a passage only once, though it
may be quoted several times. Including the whole, there are,
according to Bishop Wetenhall’s method, 244: of which 147 agree with
the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , and 97 differ
from it.

Reckoning according to Spearman, we find, out of the 189
passages quoted, 105 that agree with the Septuagint, 21 that differ
from it, 45 that differ from both it and the Hebrew, and 18 neutral.

These may be exhibited in the following table:-

No. of Quotations in

Acc. [Note: cc. The Accusative Case.] to LXX. [Note: XX. The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]

Differ from LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]
Differ from both.
Matt.

38

25

4

8

1

Mark

3

1
2
Luke
5

3

2
John
11

3

2
5

1
Acts
19
11

1

7
Rom.
51
30

4
5

12

1 Cor.
11

4

2

5

2 Cor.
8

4

1
1
2
Gal.
4
3
1
Eph.
2
1
1
Hebrews
22

15

3

4

1 Peter
7

6
1
Jude
1
1
Rev.
7
2
2
3
189
105
21
44
19

It will thus be seen that by far the larger number of quotations
correspond with the Septuagint translation.

Now, all the difficulties have been caused by thinking and speaking
only of the instrument or the agent employed: instead of having regard
to the great and important fact that the Bible has only One Author, and
that “Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost”
(2Pe. 1:21).

Our studies will certainly be incomplete if we do not observe the
manner in which the Holy Spirit quotes in the New Testament those
Scriptures which He had before inspired in the Old. Notice, then, the
following examples:-

Mar. 12:36.-“David himself said by the Holy Ghost.” This was the
introduction to a quotation from Psa. 110:1.

Mat. 15:4.-Referring to Exo. 20:12, our Lord says, “God commanded,
saying,” etc.
Heb. 3:7.-Referring to Psa. 95:7-11. “Wherefore as the Holy Ghost
saith,” not “as David saith,” or “as the Psalmist saith.”

Heb. 9:8.-Referring to Exo. 25:1-40 -х!. (concerning the Tabernacle
and its teaching), “The Holy Ghost this signifying,” etc.

Heb. 10:15.-Quoting Jer. 31:33-34, “Whereof the Holy Ghost is a
witness to us.”

Act. 1:16.-Peter, quoting Psa. 41:9 (10), says, “This Scripture must
needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost, by the mouth of
David, spake before concerning Judas.” Observe, that while David
spake, the words were not his, but “the words of the Holy Ghost.”
Act. 3:18.-Peter, referring to the Old Testament prophecies of Christ,
says, “Those things, which God before had showed by the mouth of all
his prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled.”

Act. 28:25.-Paul, quoting Isa. 6:9, exclaims, “Well spake the Holy
Ghost by Isaiah the prophet unto our fathers.

Old Testament passages are introduced in various ways:

1. γέγρατπαι (gegraptai), it standeth written. Mat. 4:4-10. Luk. 4:4;
Luk. 4:8. Rom. 1:17; Rom. 3:4; Rom. 3:10; Rom. 10:15. 1Co. 1:19;
1Co. 1:31. 1Pe. 1:16, etc.

2. λέγει γὰρ ἡ γραφή (legei даг hee graphee), for the Scripture
saith. Rom. 9:17 (Exo. 9:16). Rom. 10:11 (Isa. 28:16). 1Ti. 5:18 (Deu.
25:4).

3. 6 νόμος (ho nomos) The Law. Joh. 15:25, from Psa. 35:19; Psa.
69:4 (5), emphasizes the fact that the Sacred Writings of the Old
Covenant, viewed as a whole, constituted the Law of Israel. The
pronoun “their” shows this. Joh. 10:34 (from Psa. 82:6) is written in
Exo. 21:6; Exo. 22:8-9 (7, 8). And 1Co. 14:21 (from Isa. 28:11-12) has
a reference to Deu. 28:49. Thus the reference is carried back, not only
to the passage quoted, but to the one still earlier, in which it had its
origin.
In the New Testament eight men are specified as the agents
employed by the Holy Spirit: Moses, 13 times; David 7; Elijah, once;
Isa. 12:1-6; Joel, once; Hosea, once; Jeremiah, twice; Daniel, once.

In Matthew an agent is named 13 times (Jeremiah, Isaiah, Moses,
David, and Daniel).

In Mar. 7:1-37 (Moses, Isaiah, David, Daniel).

In Luk. 6:1-49 (Moses, Isaiah, David).

In Joh. 4:1-54 (Isaiah, Moses).

In Act. 10:1-48 (David, Joel, Moses, Isaiah).

In Rom. 10:1-21 (David, Hosea, Isaiah, Moses, Elijah).

In 1 Cor., (Moses) once.

In Heb. 3:1-19 (David, Moses).

In Rev., (Moses) once.

Thus, 14 passages are ascribed to the agency of Moses; 8 to that
of David; 13 of Isa. 2:1-22 of Hos. 2:1-23 of Jer. 1:1-19 of Dan. 1:1-21
of Joe. 1:1-20 of Elijah.
These facts are deeply instructive; because, for example, while the
modern critics divide the book of Isaiah into two authorships, the New
Testament ascribes six out of the thirteen passages to Isaiah in the
first part of the prophecy (chaps. 1-39.), and seven out of the last part
(chaps. 40-46). The recognition of this one simple fact demolishes
completely the hypothesis of the Higher Critics, and will cause us to
prefer the statements of God to the imagination of men.

In making a quotation from the Old Testament in the New, surely
the Holy Spirit is at liberty to do what any and every human writer may
do, and frequently does, in his own works. Human writers and
speakers constantly repeat, refer to, and quote what they have
previously written and spoken, introducing the words in new senses, in
different connections, with varied references, and in fresh applications.

This is the case with the quotations in the Bible, and this one
consideration explains all the so-called difficulties connected with the
subject.

Our work, then, in considering these differences, becomes totally
different in character from that which treats them merely as
discrepancies, arising from human infirmity or ignorance. These
differences become all important, because they convey to us Divine
comments, and reveal to us new truths.
In quoting, or using again, words and expressions which the Holy
Spirit has before used, we may note the following interesting ways in
which He varies the sense or the words in order to convey to us new
truths and lessons by the new application.
In referring to these by way of illustration we have not classified
them according to these definitions and divisions, as the student can
determine each case for himself. But we have followed the
arrangement of Glassius in his chapter on Gnomes.* [Note: Which
Keach translates almost verbatim, without any acknowledgment.]

|. As to their INTERNAL form (i.e., the sense as distinct from

the words).

1. Where the sense originally intended is preserved.

2. Where the sense is modified.

3. Where the sense is accommodated (accommodatio)

Il. As to their EXTERNAL form (i.e., the words as distinct from

the sense).

1. Where the words quoted are the same as the Hebrew or
the Septuagint.

2. Where the words are varied as to omission, position,
oraddition.

3. Where words are changed:
a. by areading:
b. by an inference:
ο. — п number:
@. т person:
е. п mood or tense.
4. Where several citations are amalgamated (composite
quotations).
5. Where the quotations are made from books other than the
Bible.
We will now consider these forms of Quotation in order:-
|. As to their Internal form, i.e., the sense as distinct from the
words
In the consideration of Quotations, care must be taken to note what is
said to be “spoken,” and what is said to be “written.” Some prophecies
were written and never spoken; some were spoken by the Prophet
and afterwards written down in his “prophecies”; others were “spoken”
and never written down at all, and when, therefore, a passage is
quoted as having been “spoken,” we may or may not find it written
down in the Old Testament Scriptures. But when it is said to have
been “written,” then we shall find it surely written down in the
Scriptures of truth.

Surely there is all the difference in the world between τὸ ῥηθέν (to
rheethen), that which was spoken, and ὁ γέγραπται (ho gegraptai),
that which standeth written.

There is a further consideration which will help us when the
quotations are prophecies. Prophecy is the utterance of the Lord-
Jehovah: He Who was and is and is to come. His words, therefore,
may often have a past, present and future reference.

Prophecy frequently has all three: (1) the reference to the events
at the time of its utterance; (2) a subsequent reference to some great
crisis; and (3) a final consummation, which shall fulfil and exhaust it.

When a prophecy is said, therefore, to be “fulfilled,” that exhausts
it. In other cases, where that final fulfilment is still future, the quotation
is general-“as it is written,” or some such indefinite reference.

The mistake made by most students of prophecy consists in this:
that they do not bear in mind this threefold aspect of prophecy; but
take one part, and put it for the whole.

For example, with regard to the prophecy in Dan. 11:1-45 There
was a reference to Antiochus Epiphanes, now past; but this neither
fulfilled nor exhausted the prophecy; which waits for the yet future
revelation of one who shall fill it full: while there may be a historical
reference to the course of events between. Each is true as part of the
general fulfilment; but neither contains the whole truth embodied in the
fulness of the prophetic record.

An example of this may be seen in the very first recorded fulfilment
of prophecy in the New Testament (Mat. 1:23 below). We there see
how the same Holy Spirit who first inspired that prophecy afterwards
Himself interprets and applies it.

\

1. Where the sense originally intended by the Holy Spirit is

preserved, though the words may vary
Mat. 1:23.-“Behold a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a
son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel.”

This prophecy was “spoken” by Isaiah to Ahaz (Isa. 7:13-14), and
afterwards written down. It was first spoken with special reference to
Ahaz and the circumstances then existing; but was afterwards fulfilled
and quoted with reference to the event which the prophet, who was
merely “the mouth,” did not understand, but which the Lord really
intended. The words differ from both the Heb. and the LXX. [Note: XX.
The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , but the sense is the same.

It never had or could have a proper fulfilment, except in Christ, for
no virgin ever conceived and bore a child. In the days of Isaiah a
certain woman, who was a virgin at the time when the prophecy was
uttered, afterwards brought forth a son, whom they were told to name
“Emmanuel”; and, before that child was old enough to know how to
refuse the evil and choose the good, the deliverance promised to King
Ahaz was wrought for him. But this prophecy did not have its complete
and proper fulfilment in the days of Ahaz, because a real virgin did not
conceive and bring forth a real Emmanuel.

This is not a prophecy, therefore, where the original sense is
modified; for this was the sense in which it was originally intended,
although there was a preliminary and partial fulfilment at the time.*
[Note: See Number in Scripture (page 63) by the same author and
publisher.]

Mat. 2:6.-Quoted from Mic. 5:2 (1). The words differ from the Heb. and
LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , but the sense
originally intended is preserved.

Mat. 11:10.-(Mar. 1:2, etc.). Quoted from Mal. 3:1. Here the words
differ from the Heb. and the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version
(325 b.c.).] , though the original sense intended is preserved.

Mat. 12:17, etc.-Quoted from Isa. 42:1-4. The words differ from the
LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , but the original
sense is preserved.

Mat. 13:14-15.-(Mar. 4:12. Luk. 8:10. Joh. 12:40. Act. 28:26-27).
Quoted from Isa. 6:9-10, agreeing with the LXX. [Note: XX. The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]

Mat. 21:5.-(Joh. 12:14-15). Quoted from Isa. 62:11 and Zec. 9:9,
agreeing with LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]
Mat. 21:16.-“Have ye never read, Psa. 8:2 (3), ‘Out of the mouth of
babes and sucklings thou hast perfected (or prepared) praise,’ ” which
agrees with the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]
Mat. 21:42.-(Mar. 12:10. Act. 4:11. 1Pe. 2:7). Quoted from Psa.
118:22-23 (LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ).

Mat. 22:44.-(Mar. 12:36. Luk. 20:42-43. Act. 2:34-35. 1Co. 15:25.
Heb. 1:13). Quoted from Psa. 110:1 (LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint
Version (325 b.c.).] ).

Mat. 26:31.-Quoted from Zec. 13:7. Though the words differ both from
the Heb. and the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ,
the sense originally intended is preserved.

Mat. 27:35.-(Joh. 19:24). Quoted from Psa. 22:18 (19) (LXX [Note: XX
The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ).

Luk. 4:18; Luk. 4:21.-Quoted from Isa. 61:1-2. The words differ both
from the Heb. and LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).],
though the original intention is preserved.

Joh. 19:37.-Quoted from Zec. 12:10. The words differ from the LXX
[Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , but the sense is the
same.

Act. 3:22-23.-Quoted from Deu. 18:15-19 (LXX [Note: XX The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ).

Act. 13:33.-Quoted from Psa. 2:7 (LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint
Version (325 b.c.).] ).
Act. 15:16-17.-Quoted from Amo. 9:11-12. The words differ from the
Heb. and LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , though
the sense is preserved.

Rom. 14:11.-Quoted from Isa. 45:23. The words differ both from the
Heb. and the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , but
the original sense is preserved.

Rom. 15:3.-Quoted from Psa. 69:9 (10) (LXX [Note: XX The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ).

Rom. 15:12.-Quoted from Isa. 11:1; Isa. 11:10 (LXX [Note: XX The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ).

Eph. 4:8.-Quoted from Psa. 68:18 (19). Here the original sense is
preserved, though the words differ both from the Heb. and the Ι ΧΧ.
[Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]

Heb. 1:8-9.-Quoted from Psa. 45:6-7 (7, 8), etc. (LXX [Note: XX The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ).

Heb. 1:10-13.-Quoted from Psa. 102:25 (26), etc. (LXX [Note: XX The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ).

Heb. 5:6; Heb. 7:17.-Quoted from Psa. 110:4.

Heb. 10:5-6.-Quoted from Psa. 40:6-9 (LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint
Version (325 b.c.).] ). Here the words differ from the Hebrew (see

below page 793), though the original intention and scope of the words

is preserved.

1Pe. 2:6.-Quoted from Isa. 28:16 (LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint

Version (325 b.c.).] ).

2. Where the original sense is modified in the quotation or

reference

Mat. 12:40.-Where, in the reference to Jon. 1:17 (2:1), the words are

used with a new and different application.

Joh. 3:14-15, where the words respecting the brazen serpent, though

not directly quoted, are modified in their new application.

Joh. 19:36.-“A bone of him shall not be broken.” Quoted from Exo.

12:46, where we have the words, “Neither shall ye break a bone

thereof.” That “another Scripture saith” this, is perfectly true, but not in

the same sense. It was said of the passover lamb, and it is here

modified and applied to Christ. (See 1Co. 5:7).

Eph. 5:31-32.-Where, in the reference to Gen. 2:23-24, the words are

used with a new application.
3. Where the sense is accommodated, being quite different from that
which was first intended, and the sense is accommodated by analogy
to quite a different event or circumstance

Hence this particular form of the figure is called ACCOMMODATIO.
Mat. 2:15.-“Out of Egypt have | called my son,” which agrees with the
Hebrew of Hos. 11:1, and not with the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint
Version (325 b.c.).] , which has “have | sent for his ({6., Israel's)
children.”

Mat. 2:17-18.-From Jer. 31:15 : but differs both from the Heb. and the
LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] (38:15). The sense
of each is given, but is accommodated to the new circumstances.

Mat. 8:17.-Quoted from Isa. 53:4, but differing from the LXX [Note: XX
The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , and exactly answering to the
Hebrew. The sense is accommodated; for, whereas the Spirit in Isaiah
uses the words of Christ bearing our spiritual infirmities and sins in His
passion and death (as shown in 1Pe. 2:24-25), the same Spirit uses
them in Matthew, and accommodates them to other circumstances,
viz., to Christ's healing people of their bodily sicknesses (Mat. 8:16).
But this only shows the wonderful fulness of the Divine words.
Mat. 13:35.-Quoted from Psa. 78:2 : but the sense in which Christ
used them was different from that in the Psalm, where they are used
of the past history of Israel: here they are accommodated by Christ,
the Speaker, to the present circumstances. The words are said to be
“fulfilled,” because, though the agent or speaker knew not of this
ultimate use of the words, the Holy Spirit, Who spake by him,
foreknew it. The words are said to be “spoken by the prophet,” and so
they were (see Psa. 78:1-2), though they were afterwards written
down.

The actual words differ both from the Heb. and the LXX [Note: XX
The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , 85 well as from the sense which
is accommodated to them.

Christ was making known concerning that Kingdom certain things
which would happen on its rejection. These things were not the
subject of Old Testament prophecy, but had been “kept secret,” and
are therefore called “the mysteries of (or secrets concerning) the
kingdom.”

Mat. 15:8-9.-Quoted from Isa. 29:13, according to the Septuagint, but
accommodated to different circumstances from those to which the
words referred when first spoken.

Mat. 27:9-10.-“Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremiah
the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price
of him that was valued, whom they of the children of Israel did value;
And gave them for the potter’s field, as the Lord appointed me.”

In the margin the reference given is Zec. 11:12-13 : but the words
differ so widely both from the Heb. and the Septuagint that it is more
than doubtful whether this can be the passage which is said to be
fulfilled.

As no such passage is found in Jeremiah, the difficulty is
supposed to be very great. As an example of misapplied ingenuity, we
give the various attempts which have been made by way of evading
the difficulty:

1. It was a mistake of Matthew’s memory. This was Augustine’s
opinion, followed by Alford, who says: “The citation is not from
Jeremiah, and is probably quoted from memory and unprecisely.”

2. The reading, “Jeremiah” is spurious. (Rupert von Deutz and
others).

3. It occurs in a work of Jeremiah’s which has been lost. (Origen
and others).

4. It was in Jeremiah, but the Jews have expunged it. (Eusebius).
5. That, Because Jeremiah, in the Talmud, and some MSS.,
commences the “latter” prophets, his name is put for the whole body
of their writings which would include Jeremiah. (Lightfoot, Adam Clark,
Scrivener, and others).

6. Wordsworth boldly asserts that the mistake was purposely
made; the name Jeremiah being substituted for Zechariah in order to
teach us not to depend on the prophets who were merely channels
and not the sources of Divine Truth.

Concerning this Alford says: “I put it to any faithful Christian to say,
whether of the two presents the greater obstacle to his faith, the
solution given above (see No. 1 above), or that given in Wordsworth’s
note.”

7. Others again think Matthew’s mistake arose from the Jewish
tradition “Zechariam habuisse spiritum Jeremioe” (“Zechariah had the
spirit of Jeremiah”).

Need we say, with regard to these seven, that

1. Is improbable: inasmuch as he quotes Zechariah elsewhere
(21:5, 26:31).
2. Is devoid of MS. authority, which is essential in a case of this
kind. Origen and Eusebius suspect it, but only conjecturally.

3. This, too, is only a conjecture.

4. So with this.

5. This has more weight, but is unlikely and unsatisfactory: so
evidently a make-shift.

6. We admire Wordsworth’s faith in the accuracy of the Bible more
than Alford’s free handling of the Word: but it is, after all, a wild
conjecture.
7. The same is the case with this.

Now these are just the sort of explanations which do more harm
than all the assaults of the enemies of the Bible. But they serve to
prove the truth of inspiration, in that the Bible still stands in spite of all
the defences of its friends!

If it be a quotation from Zechariah, it can be so only by
accommodation, or by composition (see below page 797, “composite
quotations”), in which case it combines four different quotations:-

(a) “They took the thirty pieces of silver,” which is derived from the
narrative, with special reference to Zechariah;

(0) “The price of him that was valued,” also after Zechariah.

(c) “Whom they bought of the children of Israel” (A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] marg.
{Note: arg. Margin.] ) as Joseph was bought and sold. After Gen.
37:1-36 :

(d) “And gave them for the potter’s field,” the narrative of the text,
with a special reference to Zechariah.

(e) “As the Lord appointed me,” which is from Jer. 32:6; Jer. 32:8,
and connects the transaction in Matthew with that in Jer. 32:1-44 A
field was bought in each case; and the latter, like the former, has
special reference to the future. Thus they treasured up a witness
against their own perfidy, while Jeremiah witnessed to the Lord’s
faithfulness.

But in reality, all these so-called explanations are utterly beside the
point, and are not only unnecessary, but absolutely worthless. The
mention of them here would be a waste of paper and printer’s ink,
except that they testify to the fact that, like most other difficulties, this
one is first invented and put into the text, and then it is wrestled with,
and the text wrested.

There is not a word about the prophecy being written in Jeremiah
at all. It says τὸ ῥηθέν (to rheethen) “that which was SPOKEN”: but
these clever critics practically take the trouble to exchange these two
words, and put in two others 6 γέγραπται (ho gegraptai), or ἦν
γεγραμµένον (een gegrammenon), “that which is written.” And then,
having made the assertion that it was written in Jeremiah, they have to
show cause why it cannot be found there.

Some prophecies were written and never (so far as we know)
spoken at all; others were both spoken and written; while some were
spoken and never written.
It says: “That which was SPOKEN by Jeremiah the prophet.”
Surely it is neither suspicion nor conjecture, nor “unprecise” to
maintain that it was thus “spoken.” Who can prove that it was not
“spoken by Jeremiah?”

True, Zechariah may have written down similar words, though not
referring to the same circumstances; but it ought never to have
occurred to anyone to say that Mat. 27:9-10 was quoted from what is
written by Zechariah, when it positively states that it was “spoken by
Jeremiah.”

Act. 13:40-41.-Quoted from Hab. 1:5, according to the LXX [Note: ХХ
The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , but accommodated to another set
of circumstances, and to the Romans rather than to the Chaldeans.
Rom. 9:27-28.-Quoted from Isa. 10:22-23, nearly according to the
LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]

Rom. 9:29.-Quoted Isa. 1:9, according to the LXX. [Note: XX. The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]

Rom. 10:6-8.-Where what the Scripture (or, rather, “the righteousness
which is of faith) “saith” (Deu. 30:12-14) is accommodated to different
circumstances-verses 6 and 8 agreeing with the LXX [Note: XX The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ‚ and verse 7 differing from it.
1Co. 1:19-20.-Quoted from Isa. 29:14; Isa. 33:18, and differing from
the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , as well as
accommodated to other circumstances.

1Co. 10:6; 1Co. 10:11.-“These things happened unto them for
ensamples.” Where the events cited are used and accommodated to
our sins and infirmities.

Rev. 1:7.-An allusion to Zec. 12:10.

Rev. 1:17.-An allusion to Isa. 41:4; Isa. 44:6, but differing from the
LXxX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]

Rev. 11:4.-Quoted from Zec. 4:14, differing both from the Heb. and the
LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ‚ and
accommodated to different circumstances.

Il. As to their External form (i.e., the words, as distinct from the

sense)

1. Where the words are from the Hebrew, or from the Septuagint
Mat. 2:15, from Hos. 11:1; Mat. 2:6, from Mic. 5:2 (1); Mat. 12:18-21,
from Isa. 42:1-4. These and other passages are from the Hebrew and
not from the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]
Luk. 4:18 quoted from the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version
(325 b.c.).] of Isa. 61:1-2. We have already instanced this as a
citation in which the original sense is preserved. But we repeat it here
because the words are varied.

“The Spirit of the Lord (Heb., Adonai Jehovah) is upon me
because he (Heb., Jehovah) hath anointed me to preach the Gospel
to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the broken-hearted, to preach
deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind.” Thus
far we have the words of the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version
(325 b.c.).] The last sentence “the recovering of sight to the blind,” not
being in the Hebrew Text* [Note: See Ginsburg’s Hebrew Bible, which
gives two readings.] ; while the last sentence in the Hebrew is not in
the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] But the two
words in the Hebrew contain both senses. 22? (pahkach) means
simply to open. Spoken once of the ears (58. 42:20); and often of the
eyes (2Ki. 4:35; 2Ki. 6:17; 2Ki. 6:20; 2Ki. 19:16. Dan. 9:18. Job. 27:19.
Pro. 20:13. Jer. 32:19. Isa. 42:7). Hence the first of the two words
means to open the eyes of: and the other word means prison. Thus, in
reading, the sense of the first word was expanded and given in the
words of Isa. 42:7; while that of the second word was expanded and
given in the words of Isa. 58:6 -the two together meaning that the eyes
of the prisoners should be opened on being released from the
darkness of their prison. Or, to open [their eyes, and open or release]
the prisoners. The explanation lies in the fact that the eyelids were
called “the doors” of the eyes (222222, aphappayim) (Psa. 132:4.
Pro. 6:4. Job. 16:16, etc.). Hence the term “to open” applies equally to
the eyes and to prison doors.
2. Where the words are varied by omission, addition, or
transposition

Mat. 4:10 and Luk. 4:8.-“Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God,” from
Deu. 6:13; Deu. 10:20; and then the Lord added His own Divine
conclusion from this: “And Him only shalt thou serve.”

The Heb. and the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325
b.c.).] have “fear”: but the fear of God includes the worship of God;
and as worship was the matter in question (see Mat. 4:9), the
φοβηθήση (phobeetheesee), thou shalt fear, of the LXX. [Note: XX.
The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] is changed by the Lord to
προσκυνήσεις (proskuneeseis), thou shalt worship.
Mat. 4:15-16, from Isa. 9:1-2 (8:23; 9:1). Here, the quotation differs
both from the Hebrew and from the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint
Version (325 b.c.).] But this is partly an accommodation; because in
Isaiah (LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ) it is
prophecy, while in the Gospel it is fulfilment that is in question.

Mat. 5:31, from Deu. 24:1 : but here it is not given as an exact
quotation. It introduces the words by the simple formula: “It hath been
said,” implying that those who thus said, put their own meaning on
what the Law said.

Mat. 12:18-21, from Isa. 42:1-4. Here, the Gospel differs from the LXX
{Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , scarcely a word being
the same till we come to the last clause. It differs, too, from the
Hebrew in the last clause, because it records the act of “fulfilment,”
and not merely the words of the prophecy. The words, therefore take
the form of a Divine comment or re-statement.

Mat. 19:5.-“And they twain” (οἱ δύο, hoi duo). These words are added
to the usual text of Gen. 2:24 : and yet the sense is the same, for only
of two were these words spoken. The quotation agrees with the LXX.
[Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]

Mat. 22:24.-From Deu. 25:5-6. But here it is the Sadducees, who do
not quote, but merely give the substance of the matter under the loose
formula “Moses said.”

Rom. 11:3-4.-From 1Ki. 19:10; 1Ki. 19:14; 1Ki. 19:18. Here neither the
Heb. nor the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] is
followed, but the facts are recorded; while the destruction of the altars
and the killing of the prophets are transposed.

1Co. 2:9.-From Isa. 64:4 (3). It is clear from this that the formula, “As it
is written,” refers to the sense rather than to the words; and that the
Divine Author, in repeating the words, sometimes varied them, as He
does here; first, by transposing the hearing and the seeing; and then,
by adding “neither have entered into the heart of man,” thus varying
both from the Heb. and the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version
(325 b.c.).]

Moreover, He employs the general sentiment in a particular case.
For what is said in the abstract, and universally, in Isaiah, is here put
in contrast to some particular things which are revealed. See verse 10.
1Со. 14:21.-From Isa. 28:11-12. Here the quotation differs both from
the Heb. and the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] :
and is accommodated to the new circumstances by the omission of
the middle passage, which was not relevant.
1Pe. 1:24-25.-From Isa. 40:6-8. Here the words are not introduced by
any formula as a quotation. Isa. 40:1-31 is referred to; and certain
words are used again by the same Author: and, therefore, some are
omitted; as not being relevant, or necessary for the purpose in hand.
3. Where the words are changed by a reading, or an inference; or
in number, person, mood, or tense

We all constantly thus quote the Scriptures: and, in adapting them by
application to some special circumstance, we depart from the original
interpretation as to the special circumstances connected with them,
and do not hesitate to change a tense, or number, or person, etc.

It is no less authoritative, as Scripture, nor does it alter the word of
God.

(a) By a different reading

Heb. 10:5 (7).-“A body hast thou prepared me.”

These words are like the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version
(325 b.c.).] of Psa. 40:6 (39:6), and differ from the Hebrew, which is,
“Mine ears hast thou opened.”
But this is not given as a quotation. It does not say, “as it is
written”; but it gives the words which “he saith,” “when he cometh into
the world.” What he then said in the accomplishment of a prophecy
must certainly differ from the form in which the event was foretold and
written centuries before.

What we have here is an adaptation or accommodation (see
above page 786) of a prophecy; and the words are changed to make it
suit the actual fulfilment of the prophecy.

It consists of four lines arranged alternately:-

а “Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire;

Ь Mine ears hast thou opened:

а Burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required;

Ь — Then said I, Lo, | come ... to do thy will, О my God.”

Here in a and a we have sacrifices; while in b and b we have
obedience.

This is another statement of the truth in 1Sa. 15:22 :

a “To obey

Ь — 15 better than sacrifice,
а And to hearken
Ь — Than the fat of rams.”

Here, again, we have obedience and sacrifice set in contrast. And
that is exactly what we have in Heb. 10:5, except that the obedience is
differently expressed.

In Psa. 40:6, the symbol is the opening or boring of the ears, which
is in harmony with Isa. 50:5; Isa. 48:8; and an allusion to Exo. 19:5;
Exo. 21:5-6; and Deu. 15:16-17; while the contrast is in harmony with
198. 15:22 and Jer. 7:22. The boring of the ears signifies the voluntary
acceptance of bond-service, and the promise to perform it. But in Heb.
10:5 we have not the promise (as in Psa. 40:6), but the actual
performance, and therefore the words are changed by the One who
came to do that will of God. Surely He had the right to change them,
and to state as a fact, “A body hast thou prepared me” in which to
obey, and by that perfect obedience unto death to do that which is
“better than sacrifice.” The “great delight” (1Sa. 15:22) of the Father is
expressed in Mat. 3:17, as well as foretold in Isa. 42:1.

Heb. 11:21.-This is not a quotation; but, as it is generally treated as
such, and as being in discrepancy with Gen. 47:31, we refer the
reader to Hysteresis (q.v. [Note: Which see-] ).

(b) By an inference
Mat. 2:6.-Here we have several changes by way of inference and
explanation, bringing out more of the meaning of the words in the
prophet. Mic. 5:2 (1) reads (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ):
“But thou Bethlehem Ephrathah, which art little to be among the
thousands of Judah, out of thee shall One come forth unto me that is
to be ruler in Israel.”

In Mat. 2:6 we have “land of Judah” instead of Ephrathah, which
was its ancient name (see Gen. 35:16-19; Gen. 48:7), as being better
understood by Herod.

Instead of the positive “art little,” we have the negative, “art in no
wise least,” because, though little in the time of Micah, yet now, after
the birth of the Messiah (Mat. 1:1-25), it could no longer be so called,
in view of the event which had given the city true greatness.

Instead of “thousands,” we have the Metonymy (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ), properly translated “princes,” because Messiah was the Prince
of princes.

Instead of “be ruler,” we have “be shepherd of” (A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] rule,
margin feed). This explanation brings in the next verse but one in
Micah (“He shall stand and shall feed.”)
Finally, the words of the prophet, “unto me,” are omitted, because
the emphasis is now on the fact rather than the purpose (though both
were true); and hence the reason is given in the word “for,” and the
fact is added in the words, “my people.”
Act. 7:43.-Here the citation differs both from the Hebrew and LXX
[Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] (Amo. 5:25-27) in
words; but, by Divine inference other facts and truths are referred to.

Instead of using the Hebrew name “Chiun,” in Amo. 5:26, the
Greek equivalent, “Remphan,” is used.* [Note: Just as “Ethiopia” is
used for the Hebrew “Koosh”; “Egypt” for “Mizraim’; “Syria” and
“Mesopotania’” for the Hebrew “Aram.”]

Instead of saying “the figures which ye made for yourselves,” the
object for which they were made is given by Him, who knew their
hearts-“figures which ye made to worship them,” thus bringing out and
emphasising their idolatry.

Instead of saying “beyond Damascus,” Stephen says: “beyond
Babylon.” But this is no “scribal error,” or “inadvertence,” as critics
assert.

Even the stoutest defenders of verbal inspiration read both Amos
and Acts, as though they both “referred to the Babylonian exile,” and
do not appear to notice that it says” beyond” Babylon.

The fact is that it is “the house of Israel” as distinct from Judah that
is spoken of in Act. 7:42, and in Amos; and, while Judah was taken
away to Babylon, Israel was taken “beyond” Babylon. Amos speaking
before either captivity (about 780 b.c.) says: “beyond Damascus’; or,
beyond where Damascus will go captive. See Amo. 1:5.

In other words, in the Old Testament the Holy Spirit alludes to the
country, and refers to Assyria, and says “beyond Damascus”; while
speaking by Stephen, in the light of all the past history, He alludes to
the fact that Israel was removed farther than Judah, for while Judah
was taken away fo Babylon, Israel was removed “beyond” it.

Rom. 9:27.-“Though the number of the children of Israel be as the
sand of the sea” (so LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325
b.c.).] ). In Isa. 10:22 it is, “Though thy People Israel be as the sand of
the sea,” etc. Here, by way of inference, the same people are
mentioned in other words.

Rom. 9:29 is referred to as a difference in reading. “Except the Lord of
Sabaoth had left us a seed” (σπέρµα, sperma). In Isa. 1:9 it is “Except
the Lord of hosts had left unto us a remnant (2222, sareed), but
sareed means the same thing exactly, though the words differ. The
seed that is left will form the remnant, and the “remnant” that is left will
consist of the “seed.”

Rom. 9:33.-“Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.” This,
in Isa. 28:16, is “He that believeth shall not make haste.”
The Hebrew (222, chiish), means to flee, flee away, hence, of
the feelings, to be excited. Rom. 9:33 is the Divine inference from this,
for he who really believes has no need for fleeing or for excitement;
but can patiently wait for and expect the fulfilment of the Divine
promises. Hence, he will have no ground for that shame which causes
others to run away.

Eph. 4:8.-This is supposed to be a case where there is a difference of
reading. The English is: “and gave gifts unto men.” But the Hebrew of
Psa. 68:18 (19) is: “Thou hast received gifts for men.”

In the Psalm we have the prophecy “that Jah Elohim might dwell
among them”; while in the Epistle we have the fulfilment in the gifts
received being “actually” given, and the Lord God dwelling in the midst
of His People by the Holy Spirit. But apart from this it ought to be
noted that the Hebrew °??? (/akach) has the double and beautiful
sense of first receiving and then giving: i.e., receive and give what is
received. Hence it is often rendered “to fetch.” See Gen. 18:5; Gen.
27:13; Gen. 42:16. Exo. 27:20 “bring.” Lev. 24:2 “bring.” 2Ki. 2:20
“bring.”
We ought, however, to note that in the Psalm we have 2222
(baadam) with the article: i.e., in the man. So that we may render it:
“Thou didst receive gifts in human nature”: i.e., as “the Son of man”
(compare Mat. 28:18. Joh. 13:3). He did give gifts to men.

(c) In number
Mat. 4:7.-“Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.” In Deu. 6:16 it is:
“Ye shall not tempt.” If the command is given to all in general, then
surely it applies to each individual in particular: and so the Lord
applied it in reply to the Tempter.
Rom. 4:7.-“Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven.” In Psa.
32:1 it is in the singular number: “Blessed is he,” etc.

But this is not a direct quotation. It is introduced by the words:
“David also describeth the blessedness of the man unto whom God
imputed righteousness without works [saying] Blessed are they whose
iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the
man to whom the Lord will not impute sin.”

But in the Hebrew the word “man” (22?) does not occur until
verse 2. In verse 1 it is literally “O the happinesses of the forgiven of
transgression: the covered of sin.” And this singular may be used of a
forgiven People collectively, and be Divinely expanded according to its
sense: “Blessed are they.”

In both places the plural is meant, the singular being put for it in
the former case only by Synecdoche (q.v. [Νοίε: Which see-] ).

Rom. 10:15.-“How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the
Gospel of peace.”

In Isa. 52:7 the Heb. is “the feet of him,” the singular being put by
Synecdoche for the plural, just as “the feet” are put (the part for the
whole) for the person who preaches.

(d) In person
Examples of this may be found under Heterosis of Person. See above,
where one person is put for another.
(e) In mood and tense
Examples of this may be found under Heterosis of the Verb. See
above.

One illustration may be given in Mat. 13:14-15, where (in the
quotation of Isa. 6:10) the indicative mood is put by Heterosis for the
imperative.
4. Where several citations are amalgamated. Composite
quotations
Sometimes a number of separate sentences are drawn from different
passages and presented as one connected passage.

This is a common use practised generally in all literature. Dr.
Franklin Johnson* [Note: The Quotations of the New Testament from
the Old considered in the light of general literature, pp. 92-102.] gives
some interesting examples from various authors.

Plato, in his /оп (p. 538), quotes two lines from Homer pieced
together by Plato himself, the first from liad xi., line 638; and the
second, line 630, col. 629.

Xenophon (Memorabilia, bk. |., ch. 2, sec. 58) quotes connectedly
as one passage, two passages from Homer (Iliad ii., 188 5αα. [Note:
qq. Following.] and 198 sqq. [Note: qq. Following.]

Lucian, in his Charon (sec. 22), runs five lines together from
Homer. But Jacobitzt [Note: Lucian i., p. 39.] shows that they are
brought together from different passages: viz.: Iliad ix. 319, 320, and
Odyssey x. 521; xi. 539.

Plutarch, in his treatise on Progress in Virtue, treats two separate
lines of Homer as a single sentence, viz., Odyssey vi. 187 and xxiv.
402.

Cicero, in De Oratore, book ΙΙ., sec. 80, quotes from the Andria of
Terence, making up in two lines parts of Terence’s lines 117, 128 and
129.

Philo, in his treatise, Who is the heir of divine things? sec. 5,
quotes, as one address of Moses, parts of two, viz., Num. 11:13; Num.
22:1-41, but both refer to the same matter.

In the same treatise (sec. 46) he runs together parts of Gen.
18:14; Gen. 17:19.
Conybeare and Howson (Life and Epistles of St. Paul, vol. Ι., p.
54) quote, as one passage, parts of Psa. 122:4; Psa. 68:27 (28);
122:5, 2, 6, 7; and 68:35 (36). And these are not accompanied by any
references or explanation.

Ruskin, in his Modern Painters, vol. V., p. 146, quotes as one
passage: “How | love thy law! It is my meditation all the day. Thy
testimonies are my delight and my counsellors; sweeter also than
honey and the honeycomb.” All these four sentences are from the
Psalms. The first two are from Psa. 119:97; Psa. 119:24; Psa. 19:10
(11).

All these composite quotations are made up of sentences that
relate to the same subject. And this is always true of those which we
find in the Scriptures.

Not so when man quotes the Scriptures in this manner. When he
thus strings texts together it is a very different matter; and, though
sometimes harmless, it is often dangerous, and is a practice greatly to
be deprecated. By a system, which may be called text-garbling, he is
able to support his own theories and views.

We recently saw two texts (quotations) thus connected in order to
support Fasting, though they relate to totally distinct subjects: “The
Lord Jesus fasted forty days and forty nights. Do this in remembrance
of Me.” This is a flagrant example, but less likely to harm than many
others which are less glaring and more specious.

Quite different are those examples in which the Holy Spirit Himself
takes His own words and thus links them together, making one subject
of them, even though that subject cannot be discerned by us in the
separate passages.

The following are examples:-

Mat. 21:5.-“Tell ye the daughter of Sion, Behold, thy king cometh unto
thee,” etc.

This is a composite quotation, the first sentence, “Tell ye,” etc.,
being taken from Isa. 62:11, and the latter contracted from Zec. 9:9.

In Mat. 21:13 (Mar. 11:17, and Luk. 19:46), the Lord exclaimed: “It is
written, My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have
made it a den of thieves.” The first half of this is from Isa. 56:7, and
the second slightly altered from Jer. 7:11. In both passages (which
agree with the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ) the
subject is the same; viz., the Temple, and the right use of it.

Mar. 1:2-3.-“As it is written in the prophets, Behold,” etc.
The prophets quoted are Mal. 3:1, and Isa. 40:3.
Luk. 1:16-17 is from Mal. 4:5-6 (3:23, 24) and 3:1.
Act. 1:20 is made up from Psa. 69:25 (26), and 109:8, and differs both
from the Heb. and the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325
b.c.)]
Rom. 3:10-18 is a long quotation made up of the following passages,
which all refer to the same subject. They are composed of two
classes, the general and the particular; verses 10-12 are taken from
Ecc. 7:20. Psa. 14:2-3; Psa. 53:2-3 (3, 4), which speak generally of
the universality of sin; while the second kind, verses 13-18, taken from
Psa. 5:9 (10). Isa. 59:7-8, and Psa. 36:1 (2) proves the same thing;
being the manifestations of sin in particular cases. Thus two methods
of proof by induction are employed: and yet some, “forgetting their
logic” (as Dr. Franklin Johnson says), see a difficulty in this simple
method of proof which is common to all writers of all ages, and of
various languages.

It should be noted that in these cases the reasoning is always
correctly from the general to the particular; and not, as is so often the
case with man, from the particular to the general: which is false in
logic and fatal as to the argument.
Rom. 9:33 is made up from Isa. 28:16; Isa. 8:14. Varied both from the
Heb. and the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]
Rom. 11:8 is made up from Isa. 29:10 and Deu. 29:4.

Rom. 11:26-27 is made up from Isa. 59:20-21; Isa. 27:9, and agreeing
with the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]

1Co. 15:54-55 is made up from Isa. 25:8, and Hos. 13:14, and varied
both from the Heb. and the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version
(325 b.c.).]

2Co. 6:16 is made up from Lev. 26:11-12 and Eze. 37:27, and is
varied from the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).]
Gal. 3:8 is made up from Gen. 12:3; Gen. 18:18.

Heb. 9:19-20 is made up from Exo. 24:6-8, and Num. 19:6.

1Pe. 2:7 is made up from Psa. 118:22 and Isa. 8:14.

Objectors have made a difficulty of these composite quotations, as
though the Holy Spirit, the Author of the words as well as of the Word,
may not repeat, vary, or combine His words in any way He pleases:
and as though He were to be denied the right claimed and practised
by writers in all ages.
So far from seeing a difficulty in this, we may learn many important
lessons from these variations, which are nothing less than Divine
Comments on the Divine Word by the Divine Author.

5. Where quotations are front secular works, or books other than
the Bible

Sometimes the Holy Spirit quotes words from secular and human

writings, and either thus endorses the truth of the statement, or uses it

against those who believed it and accepted it as truth.

Not all, however, that are generally considered as quotations are
really so. For example: “As Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses”
(2Ti. 3:8) is said to be a quotation from the Targum of Jonathan ben
Uzziel upon Exo. 7:11. But the Holy Spirit may give this independently,
as a fact, quite apart from the Targum altogether; while many believe
the Targum to be of a later date.

So, too, the prophecy of Enoch in Jud. 1:14-15 may just as well be
the foundation on which the so-called “Book of Enoch” was afterwards
made up, as a quotation made from that book. We certainly prefer to
believe that the book of Enoch was originated from Jud. 1:14-15; and,
taking this as the starting point, other prophecies were concocted and
added by some old and unknown writer.

The same applies to Jud. 1:9 concerning the controversy between
Michael and the Devil about the body of Moses. This Scriptural
statement was the original centre round which numberless fancies and
fictions subsequently gathered, and from which the traditions started.

On the other hand, there are three certain undoubted
quotationsfrom secular writings. We will give them all.

The first is:-

Act. 17:28.-“For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as
certain also of your own poets have said, ‘For we are also his
offspring’ (τοῦ γὰρ καὶ γένος ἐσμέν, tou gar kai genos esmen).” This is
an exact quotation from Aratus, a native of Tarsus; who, being a poet,
had been requested by Antigonus Gonatas, son of Demetrius, and
King of Macedonia (273-239 b.c.), to put into poetry an astronomical
work of Eudoxus (an astronomer of Cnidus, 403-350 b.c.), called
Phainomena. This he did about 270 b.c., and he called his work
Diosemeia (i.e., the Divine signs), being a description and explanation
of the signs of the Zodiac, and the Constellations, as the Greeks then
understood, or rather misunderstood, them.* [Note: See The Witness
of the Stars, by the same author and publisher.] The poem opens with
praise of God (Zeus or Jupiter), and these words occur in the fifth
line:-
“From Zeus we lead the strain; He whom mankind
Ne’er leave unhymned; of Zeus all public ways,

All haunts of men, are full; and full the sea,

And harbours; and of Zeus all stand in need.

We are his off spring; and he, ever good to man,
Gives favouring signs, and rouses us to toil,” etc., etc.

Similar words, ἐκ σοῦ γὰρ γένος ἐσμέν (ek sou gar genos esmen)
are used by Kleanthes (Hymn in Jov. 5), who was born at Assos in
Troas about 300 b.c. Also in The Golden Verses of Pythagoras.

In Act. 17:28, the word “poets,” being in the plural; may refer to
both of them, while the article in both cases refers to Zeus, or Jupiter.
The statement of the quotation was believed by the Greeks, and it is
used here as an argumentum ad hominem. For it could never be that
Zeus is really Jehovah, or that Jehovah is the “father” of everyone.
The “universal fatherhood of God’”-the Devil's lie-was the belief of the
heathen, as well as of most modern “Christian” teachers. But both are
wrong: for God is “the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,” and of those
only who are “in Christ.” It is to “as many as received Him, to them
[and to none other] gave He authority to be called the sons of God”
(Joh. 1:12).
1Co. 15:33.-“Evil communications (or companionships) corrupt good
manners.”

φθείρουσιν ἤθη χρήσθ᾽ ὁμιλίαι кака! (phtheirousin eethee
chreesth’ homiliai kakai). The words occur in this form, according to
Jerome,t [Note: In his Epistle to the Orator Magnus.] in the Thais of
Menander. Dr. Burton thinks Menander may have quoted it from
Euripides. Meyer quotes Plato (Rep. 8:550B).

These various opinions show that the words were current as a
common place quotation (Paroemia, q.v. [Νοίε: Which see.] ), and are
quoted as such here.

Tit. 1:12.-“One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, ‘The
Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies’ (i.e., liars, evil wild-
beasts, gluttons, lazy). This involves another figure called Oxymoron
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ). Jerome¥ [Note: Com. in loco.] says that the
poet was Epimenides, and that the words occur in his work called de
Oraculis (i.e., of Oracles), whence he is called a “prophet,” either by
way of irony, or because of the title of his work. Callimachus (a poet of
Cyrene) makes use of these words in a hymn to Jupiter, and satirizes
the Cretans for their boast that Jupiter was buried in Crete, whereas
he maintains (of course) that Jove was immortal. It was from this that
Ovid said ‘Nec fingunt omnia Ογείες’ (The Cretans do not always lie*
[Note: See Ovid, A. iii. 10, 19. Ellicott refers to Ovid, de A. А., i. 298.
This says “quamvis sit mendax, Creta negare potest.” ).

The origin of all this was that the Cretans had a certain sepulchre
with this epitaph: “Here lies one whom they call Jupiter.”

Because of this, the “Poet” charges them with a lie, saying: “the
Cretans are alway liars, evil beasts, slow-bellies; therefore (O Jupiter)
they have built a Sepulchre for you. But thou hast not died, ... thou
always livest,” etc.

But it has been pointed out (by Archbishop Whately, we believe),
that if the Cretans are always liars, this was said by a Cretan,
therefore he must have been a liar, and what he said could not be
true! But all this reasoning is set at rest by the Holy Ghost, who says:
“This testimony is true!”
In Act. 17:22-23, we have not, indeed, a quotation, but a reference to
a matter on which contemporary and later writers give confirmatory
and interesting evidence. “I perceive that in all things ye are unusually
religious. For, as | passed by and carefully observed your objects of
worship, | found an altar also with this inscription; Ἀγνώστῳ θεῷ
(Agnost6 the6) ‘to an unknown God.’ Whom therefore, not knowing, ye
reverence, him | make known to you.”

Jeromet [Note: Epist. ad Magnum Oratorem Romanum. Vol. Ill.
Operum, f. 148.] says (speaking of St. Paul); “He learned of the true
David to snatch the sword from the enemy’s hand, and cut off his head
with his own weapon.”

Ludovicus Vives says} [Note: De Civit, Dei. Book VII., cap. 17.]

that “in the Attic fields there were very many altars dedicated to
unknown Gods,” and that “Pausanias in his Attics, speaks of The
Altars of Unknown Gods, which altars were the invention of
Epimenides, the Cretan. For, when Attica was visited with a sore
plague, they consulted the Delphian Oracle, whose answer was
reported to be: That they must offer sacrifices, but named not the god
to whom they should be offered. Epimenides, who was then at Athens,
commanded§ [Note: Hence called ‘a prophet’ in Tit. 1:12. See The
Man of God, by the same author and publisher.] that they should send
the beasts intended for the sacrifice through the fields, and that the
sacrificers should follow the beasts with this direction: that, wherever
they should stand, there they must be sacrificed to the unknown god,
in order to pacify his wrath. From that time, therefore, to the time of
Diogenes Laertius these altars were visited.* [Note: For further
information on this subject, see Sixtus Senensis, book 2, Biblioth Tit.
Arce Athenensis Inscriptio. Also Wolfius, Vol. Ι., Lectionum
Memorabilium, p. 4, 5:20, etc.]

Col. 2:21.-“Touch not; taste not; handle not.” These ordinances of
men were probably prescribed in these words, and are referred to as
well known. We know them also to-day; for man is the same, and
human nature is not changed.

Amphibologia; or, Double Meaning
A Word or Phrase susceptible of two Interpretations

Am-phib-o-log’-i-a, from the Greek Gugi (amphi), on both sides, βόλος
(bolos), a throw, and λόγος (logos), a word; hence ἀμφιβολογία is a
word Or phrase susceptible of two interpretations. It is not
synonymous with what we speak of as ambiguous; which means that
which is uncertain or equivocal.

A statement which is amphibological has two meanings, both of
which are absolutely true. (An equivocation has two meanings also,
but only one of them is true.) There are several such statements in
Scripture, and indeed all prophecies are more or less of this character.
They are the words of Jehovah, who was, and is, and is to come;
hence His words have a fulness of reference and meaning which one
interpretation often fails to exhaust. A prophecy may have a reference
to something at the time of its utterance. It may wait for its final
fulfilment in the remote future. And there may be an application to the
time between these two limits. Hence the Futurist and Prrterist
interpretations are both true, in so far as they are each a part of the
truth. But they are each wrong when the one is put for the other, and a
part is put for the whole.

A beautiful example of Amphibologia is furnished in
2Ki. 5:18.-“Go in peace.” This was Elisha’s answer to Naaman, who
wished to know whether the Lord would pardon if, when he went with
his master, the king of Syria into the temple of Rimmon, he bowed
himself there.
Elisha’s answer was an Amphibologia: “Go in peace.” If he had

said, “Yes; you may bow,” that would have been to sanction idolatry.
And if he had said, “No; you must not bow,” that would have been to
put Naaman’s conscience under a yoke of bondage to Elisha.
Eze. 12:13.-The term Amphibologia, however, refers more especially
to a prophecy like that concerning Zedekiah, king of Judah, in Eze.
12:13 : “I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans; yet
shall he not see it, though he shall die there.” This prophecy, by itself,
is almost in the form of an nigma (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ): for it is
capable of two interpretations, both of which are true. The other is in
Jer. 34:3 : “Thine eyes shall behold the eyes of the king of Babylon,
and he shall speak with thee mouth to mouth, and thou shalt go to
Babylon.”

Zedekiah, in his unbelief and perverseness, determined not to
believe either of these prophecies, because he could not understand
them. So Josephus tells us. Yet both were perfectly true, as the
fulfilment proved.

Zedekiah had his eyes put out by the king of Babylon at Riblah
(2Ki. 25:7. Jer. 39:7; Jer. 52:11). He spoke to the king of Babylon, and
saw him; and he was afterwards taken to Babylon, but did not see it,
though he died there (Eze. 17:16).
Joh. 19:22.-“What | have written | have written.” Pilate said this to
convey two meanings. First, to state a matter of fact; and second, to
dismiss an inconvenient subject; implying that he did no wish to alter
what he had written, and yet did not declare that he would not. The
history seems to imply that he did afterwards either alter it or permit it
to be altered. For

(1) The inscription in Joh. 19:19 was written (probably in Latin) and
put on the cross before it left Pilate’s presence.

(2) The inscription in Mat. 27:37 was written probably in Hebrew,
and placed over his head, not by the soldiers who nailed him to the
cross, but by the persons, “they,” who crucified him. This was not so
placed until after the garments had been divided, and the soldiers had
“sat down to watch him there.”

(3) The inscription in Luk. 23:38 appears to have been of Hebrew
origin (the Hebrew being put last, whereas in Pilate’s (John) the Latin
was last). It was not seen till near the sixth hour, and was apparently
the cause of the reviling which followed, “Jesus” being omitted from
Matthew's, which seems to have been intermediate between John’s
and Luke’s, while Mark’s was probably the same as that to which Luke
refers and gives merely another translation of the Hebrew.
It is impossible for us, now, to know what discussion went on
during the day. All that we know is, from Joh. 19:1-42, that the Jews
earnestly desired to have it altered, and that Pilate did not decidedly
refuse at the time. So that it is probable that the discussions
continued, and these different inscriptions are the evidence of it, put
up in different terms, and at different times: or it may be that it was the
various translations that were so put up.

From these considerations we would suggest that the difficulty felt
as to the variations in the wording of the inscriptions may be removed
more easily and satisfactorily by believing that there were at least
three inscriptions put up at different times during the day, and that
these, being changed, differed from each other. If this be not the
explanation then another series of difficulties is created-as to the
sequence of the events recorded in the different gospels.

Our present suggestion meets both sets of difficulties at once.
Act. 17:22 is another example. “Ye men of Athens, in all things |
perceive that ye are very religious.” (See R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] margin, somewhat religious).

This has two interpretations: for they were truly very “religious,”
and yet knew nothing of true Christianity.

We thus learn that Christianity is religion; but religion is not
necessarily Christianity.

To say that a person is religious tells us nothing: for he may be a
Buddhist, a Mahommedan, a Roman Catholic, or a votary of any other
religious system; but it does not follow that such an one is “in Christ,”
and therefore a. Christian.

Eironeia; or, ΙΓΟΠΥ
The Expression of Thought in a form that naturally conveys its
opposite
Г-гоп-у. Greek, εἰρωνεία (eiréneia), dissimulation. Hence, a
dissembling, especially in speech, from εἴρειν (εἰπείπ), to speak.

The figure is so called when the speaker intends to convey a
sense contrary to the strict signification of the words employed: not
with the intention of concealing his real meaning, but for the purpose
of adding greater force to it. There are not many examples of this
figure in Scripture. /rony has too much of contempt in it to suit the pity
which is rather the spirit of the Scriptures.

And, moreover, /rony in the Scriptures is generally connected with
serious words which make its use perfectly patent and clear.

There are three classes of /гопу:-

1. ANTIPHRASIS, an-tiph’-rasis, from avti (anti), against or
opposite, and φράσις (phrasis), a way of speaking (from φράζειν,
phrazein, to speak). This name is given to /rony when it consists of
one word or a single expression. As when “a court of justice” is called
“a court of vengeance.”

2. PERMUTATIO or permutation, when the /rony consists of
phrases, and sentences, or longer expressions.

3. SARCASMOS, §sar-cas-mos. Greek, σαρκασµός; (Latin,
sarcasmos), from σαρκάζω (sarkaz6), to tear flesh as dogs do; hence,
a rending or tearing or wounding with cutting words; sarcasm. /rony is
so called when it is used as a taunt or in ridicule.

We have not arranged our examples in these three divisions, but
have combined these together in five other divisions more simply,
thus:-

|. Divine Irony. Where the speaker is Divine.

Il. Human Irony. Where the speaker is a human being.

Ill. Peirastic Irony. Where the words are not spoken ironically in
the ordinary sense, but peirastically: i.e., by way of trying or
testing (PEIRASTIKOS).

IV. Simulated Irony. Where the words are used by man in
dissimulation or hypocrisy.

V. Deceptive Irony. Where the words are not only hypocritical, but
false and deceptive.

1. Divine Irony:
Where the speaker is Divine
Gen. 3:22.-“And the Lord God said: Behold the man is become as one
of us, to know good and evil.”

Man had not become “as one of us.” He had become a wreck and
а ruin, even as man. These words call our attention to verse 5, and
show how false was the Serpent's promise.
Deu. 32:37.-“And he shall say: Where are their gods, their rock in
whom they trusted, Which did eat the fat of their sacrifices, and drank
the wine of their drink-offerings? let them rise up and help you, and be
your protection.”

This is Divine Sarcasm; for their gods were no rock or defence,
neither did they accept offerings or give help.
Jdg. 10:14.-“Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; let
them deliver you in the time of your tribulation.” This was Divine
Sarcasm, for those gods could neither hear nor deliver.
Job. 38:4.-“Where wast thou when | laid the foundations of the earth?”
Verse 5. “Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who
hath stretched the line upon it?” So throughout this chapter.

This is the Divine Sarcasm on all scientists who profess to
understand and tell us all about the earth, its size, and its shape, and
its weight, etc., etc.

Considering the various changes which have taken place during
the centuries in what is called “science,” we may well lay this question
to heart, emphasised as it is by being Divine Irony.

Psa. 60:8 (10).-“Philistia triumph thou over me.” This is said ironically;
for the truth is put literally in Psa. 108:9 (10): “Over Philistia will |
triumph.” See margin and compare Exo. 8:9 (5).

Ecc. 11:9 is generally considered to be Irony, but we can hardly so
regard it. It is almost too solemn to be Irony. It says: Do it; do all this:
“but know thou that for all these things God will bring thee into
judgment.”

Isa. 2:10.-“Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of the
Lord and for the glory of his majesty.” This is /rony: to show that
neither rocks nor any other shelter can save man from the judgments
in “the day of the Lord.”
Isa. 8:9-10.-This /rony is meant to emphasise the fact that; however
much men may unite together against God, it will all come to naught.
These are the words of God in the mouth of the prophet.

Isa. 17:3.-“They shall be as the glory of the children of Israel”: {6., the
glory of Damascus and Syria shall fade as the glory of Israel had
passed away. The word “glory” is thus marked by Antiphrasis to point
us to that which had been lost, and the height from which Israel had
fallen.

Isa. 21:5.-This is God’s message to Babylon: to show that all her
preparation for defence would not prevent the ultimate cry: “Babylon is
fallen, is fallen.” See verses 6-9.

Isa. 29:1.-“Woe to Ariel, to Ariel (i.e., the lion of God), the city where
David dwelt!” This glorious title is put by Metonymy (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ) for Jerusalem: and, is used here in order to emphasise, by
Irony, the depth to which the City had fallen from the height of its past
glory.

Isa. 50:11.-This is Divine Irony to show the vanity of striving for light
and happiness apart from God. It is a solemn warning for all those to-
day who are seeking to bring about a millennium without Christ.

Isa. 57:12.-“I will declare thy righteousness and thy works.” These
words were addressed, by sarcasm, to an apostate and wicked
People. The word “righteousness,” by Antiphrasis, marks the fact,
which is clear from the words which follow: “For they shall not profit
thee.” Had the works been really righteous, they would have profited.
Isa. 57:13.-“When thou criest, let thy companies deliver thee.” To
show that the abundance of riches or people cannot deliver in the day
of trouble.

Jer. 7:21.-"Thus saith the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel: Put (or
add) your burnt offerings unto your sacrifices and eat flesh.” That this
was Irony is clear from what follows. They were the sacrifices of
hypocrites which Jehovah would not accept.

Jer. 11:15.-“What hath my beloved to do in mine house?” What
follows clearly shows what is meant by the Antiphrasis in the word
“beloved.”
Jer. 22:20.-“Go up to Lebanon, and cry; and lift up thy voice in
Bashan, and cry from the passages.” This is Irony, or Sarcasm,
addressed to the family of Jehoiakim, who looked to Egypt for help
against the king of Babylon: but 2Ki. 24:7 tells us that “the king of
Egypt came not again any more out of his land; for the king of Babylon
had taken from the river of Egypt unto the river Euphrates all that
pertained to the king of Egypt.” It was no use, therefore, for Jehoiakim
to go up to the passes of Lebanon or Bashan and cry out for those
who before had helped.

Jer. 46:9.-The words of God to Egypt. Shown to be /rony by verse 10.
Jer. 46:11.-“Go up into Gilead, and take balm, О virgin, the daughter
of Egypt.” This is shown to be /rony by the words that follow: “In vain
shalt thou use many medicines; for thou shalt not be cured.”

Jer. 51:8.-“Howl for her (Babylon); take balm for her pain, if 5ο be she
may be healed.” But the context shows that it was destruction, and not
healing, that awaited her. So verse 11.

Lam. 4:21.-“Rejoice and be glad, О daughter of Edom,” etc. This is
Irony; for judgment is announced in verse 22. The meaning simply is,
that, however much Edom might rejoice, the punishment of her iniquity
should be accomplished.
Eze. 3:24.-“Go, shut thyself within thine house.” But the 25th verse
shows that however closely he might shut himself up his enemies
should find him and bind him.
Eze. 20:39.-“As for you, О house of Israel, thus saith the Lord God;
Go ye, serve ye every one his idols,” etc.

It is impossible that Adonai Jehovah should command idolatry. It is
Irony, as is clear from the context.
Eze. 28:3.-“Behold, thou art wiser than Daniel; there is no secret that
they can hide from thee.”

God thus ironically addresses the king of Tyre. Daniel, on account
of Divine gifts, was esteemed most wise. But the king of Tyre was a
mere man, as verse 2 declares.
Amo. 4:4-5.-“Come to Bethel and transgress; at Gilgal multiply
transgression; and bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes
after three years: And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and
proclaim and publish the free offerings: for this liketh you (i.e., you
love to do this), O ye children of Israel.”

That this is Irony and sarcasm is clear from the conclusion of the
address in verse 12. Deu. 14:28 and Lev. 7:13 are the passages
referred to.

Nah. 3:14.-“Draw thee waters for the siege, fortify thy strongholds”:
etc.: {Θ., prepare as you will, but all your labour will be in vain. (See
under Heterosis).

Zec. 11:13.-“A goodly price.”

The word “goodly” is used by Antiphrasis, to denote the opposite.
Mal. 1:9.-“And now, | pray you, beseech God (ΕΙ) that he will be
gracious unto us.”

These words are put by God in the mouth of the priests, and His

answer is given in what follows.
Mar. 7:9.-Here the /rony is beautifully brought out by translating καλῶς
(kal6s) “full well.” καλῶς means with propriety, suitably, becomingly. №
suited the people to set aside the commandment of God, and make
void the Word of God by their tradition. This exactly suited and
corresponded to the action of those who washed the outside but were
defiled within.

See the whole context, which applies with force, to-day, to all mere
philanthropists and reformers, who preach a “social” Gospel, in order
to raise the ungodly in the social scale, but leave the masses short of
that which God requires.
“Well do ye reject.” No, ye do evil!
Luk. 11:41.-“But rather give alms of such things as ye have; and,
behold, all things are clean unto you.” It is /rony. It was what the
Pharisees taught, but it was not true.

Luk. 13:33.-“I must walk to-day, and to-morrow, and the day following:
for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.”

This is a message to Herod, whom He calls (by Hypocatastasis)
“that fox” (or that vixen), and the last words are Ironical, as is clear
from the solemn exclamation which follows in the next verse.

The sense of the whole passage seems to be:-We are still three
days’ walk from Jerusalem. To Jerusalem | must get: to die there: for
Jerusalem is become the natural place for prophets to perish in. So
you need not threaten me with death from Herod. It is not within his
jurisdiction-(see 23:7: “As soon as he knew that He belonged to
Herod's jurisdiction”)-that | must die.

Joh. 3:10.-“Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things?”
This is a species of mild /rony.

Joh. 7:28 is Irony, and refers back to verse 27. “Whom ye know not”
points to the fact that they knew not God, and, therefore, they knew
not Christ.
1Co. 6:4.-“Set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church.”

The next verse shows clearly that this is /rony, and a
condemnation of what they had really done. For he asks, “Is it so that
there is not a wise man among you? No; not one that shall be able to
judge between his brethren?”
2Co. 5:3.-“If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked.”

Here, the /rony being missed, the text has been altered in some
MSS. (περ, as / suppose, for ye, at least). There is no sense unless
the Irony is seen. “If indeed being clothed also, we shall not be found
naked,” as some of you believe who say “that there is no resurrection
of the dead” (1Co. 15:12), and therefore no resurrection body for us to
be clothed-upon with.
2Co. 13:5.-“Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove
your own selves.”

The Hyperbaton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), by which the pronoun
ἑαυτούς (heautous), yourselves, is placed at the beginning of the
sentence, (the object before the subject), shows the emphasis which
is to be placed upon it, and tells us that this is the serious irony of a
grieved heart, and not a general command. These Corinthian saints,
having been beguiled by the Jewish enemies of the apostle to
question his apostleship, actually sought a proof of Christ speaking in
him! So he meets their questionings with another question: “Since ye
seek a proof of Christ speaking in me ... YOURSELVES examine ye,
if ye are in the faith; YOURSELVES prove ye. Know ye not that Jesus
Christ is in you except ye be reprobates?”

The answer to this question, thus ironically put, would prove them
to be the seals of his ministry, and the real proof of his apostleship.

Here is no command for the saints to-day, no admonition to
practise continual self-examination and introspection, to see whether
they are in the faith; for Christ is in them. Read the words in
connection with the context, and the force of this solemn /rony will be
at once seen: and it will be used no more to vex and perplex God’s
dear children, by taking words which refer to their state to upset their
standing, which is perfect and complete “in Christ.”

Il. Human Irony:
Where the speaker is a human being

1Sa. 26:15.-The words of David to Abner: “Art thou not a valiant man?
And who is like to thee in Israel?”

This sarcasm was used to show how Abner had neglected his
duty.
1Ki. 18:27.-The words of Elijah to the prophets of Baal were sarcasm
of the severest kind.
1Ki. 22:15.-The words of the prophet Micaiah to Ahab and
Jehoshaphat: “Go, and prosper’; to show by /rony the false
prophecies of Ahab’s own prophets.
2Ki. 8:10.-The words of Elisha to Hazael: “Go, say unto him (i.e., the
king of Syria), Thou mayest certainly recover: howbeit the Lord hath
shewed me that he shall surely die.”

By the Irony in the first clause, Elisha stated a fact, that there was
no reason why Benhadad should not recover. In the latter clause he
revealed to Hazael that he knew he meant to murder him, as it came
to pass. Compare verses 11, 14 and 15.

Job. 12:2.-“No doubt but ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with
you.” This powerful Irony is meant to emphasise the fact that Job’s
friends had no more knowledge than he: and may be used with great
truth of many who arrogate to themselves the right to sit in judgment
on their sinful fellow-servants.

Job. 26:2-3 -The words of Job to his friend: “How hast thou helped
him that is without power,” etc.

Mat. 11:19.-“А friend of publicans and sinners.” This was said in /гопу,
but it expresses a blessed fact for all Divinely-convicted sinners.

Luk. 15:2.-“This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.” This
was said in Irony, but it expresses a most blessed truth for all who
know and feel themselves to be sinners.
Joh. 18:38.-“Pilate saith unto him, What is truth?”

By his not waiting for the answer it seems that the question wasnot
seriously put. (See under Erotesis). So, his words in
Joh. 19:14.-“Behold your king,” were also /rony.
1Co. 4:8.-This verse is true /rony. But other figures are involved. See
under Asyndeton, Anabasis, and Metonymy (of the subject).
2Co. 10:12.-In the words, “we dare not,” the Apostle intimates, by
Irony, that he was far beyond those who thought themselves to be
somebodies.
2Co. 11:19.-“Ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye yourselves are wise.”
2Co. 12:13.-“Forgive me this wrong.”

Ill. Peirastic Irony:
By way of trying or testing

This third kind of /гопу is where the words may not mean exactly what
they seem to say, but are used by way of trial to the persons to whom
they were spoken, not sarcastically, but peirastically: i.e., by way of
trying and testing. The Greeks called this PEIRASTIKOS, πειραστικός,
fitted for trying and testing; from πειράζω (peirazé), to make proof or
trial.

Gen. 19:2.-The angels said to Lot, “Nay; but we will abide in the street
all night.” This was said to try Lot, to see what he would do; for they
were not sent to abide in Sodom at all.

Gen. 22:2.-God said to Abraham, “Take now thy son, thine only son,
Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and
offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which |
will tell thee of.” God said this (it distinctly says) to try him (not tempt,
in our modern use of the word).

Verse 12 farther shows that God never intended that the sacrifice
should actually take place. Abraham thought He did, and believed
that, if Isaac had been offered, God would have raised him from the
dead. See Heb. 11:17-19.

It seems very probable that this was the spot where the altar of
burnt offering was afterwards erected. Compare 1Ch. 21:26; 1Ch.
21:28; 1Ch. 22:1, and 2Ch. 3:1.

Mat. 15:24.-Jesus said to the disciples what was perfectly true as a
matter of fact, and as though to endorse their position, “I was not sent
except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.” But it was said by way
of trial to the woman’s faith.
So also in verse 26, when He said to her: “It is not meet to take the
children’s bread (with emphasis on children, by Antimereia, q.v. [Note:
Which see.] ), and to cast it to the little dogs,” meaning herself (by
Hypocatastasis, q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). See also this verse under
Meiosis and Synecdoche.

IV. Simulated Irony:
Where the words in question are used by man either in
dissimulation or hypocrisy

Gen. 37:19.-Joseph’s brethren said: “Behold this dreamer cometh.”
The Heb. is stronger than this, as is partly shown in the margin:
“Behold that Master of the dreams, there he comes.” They did not
mean this, for see verses 5 and 11.

2Sa. 6:20.-Michal to David: “How glorious was the king of Israel to-
day!”

That this was hypocritical is shown by verse 16: “She despised
him in her heart.” And so David understood it (verses 21, 22). Note
that the uncovering of which Michal spoke referred only to his royal
robes; as is clear from 1Ch. 15:27, which tells us what he was
“clothed” with.
Psa. 22:8 (9).-“He trusted in the Lord that he would deliver him.”

Most true, but not meant as truth in the lips of His enemies, as is
clear from Mat. 27:43. See also under Heterosis.
Isa. 5:19.-These words are used hypocritically, as is clear from the
“Woe” pronounced on the speakers in verse 18.
Mat. 22:16.-The disciples of the Pharisees, and the Herodians say to
Christ: “Master, we know that thou art true,” etc.
Mat. 27:29.-“Hail, King of the Jews!” So also verses 40, 42 and 43;
Mar. 15:20, etc.

V. Deceptive Irony:
Where words are clearly false as well as hypocritical

Gen. 3:4-5.-Words clearly false, for Satan knew the opposite: and Eve
ought to have known the same, as they flatly contradicted the words of
the Lord God.
Mat. 2:8.-Herod says to the wise men: “Go and search for the young
child; and when ye have found him, bring me word again, that | may
come and worship him also” (or that | also may come and worship
him).
This was false, for Herod wanted to slay Him, and not to worship

Him.

Oxymoron; or, Wise-Folly

A Wise saying that seems Foolish
Ox’-y-m6’-ron. Greek, ὀξύμωρον, from ὀξύς (oxus), sharp, pointed,
and µωρός (méros), dull, foolish.

This is a figure, in which what is said at first sight appears to be
foolish, yet when we come to consider it, we find it exceedingly wise.

It is a smart saying, which unites words whose literal meanings
appear to be incongruous, if not contradictory; but they are so cleverly
and wisely joined together as to enhance the real sense of the words.
The Latins called it ACUTIFATUUM (a-cu -ti-fat-u-um), from acutus,
sharp or pointed (English, acute), and fatuus, foolish, fatuous, or
simple.
Examples from General Literature are common:-

Cicero says to Catiline:-

“Thy country, silent, thus addresses thee.”

Milton shows to Despair:-

“In the lowest depth a lower depth.”

Examples abound in common use: e.g., “cruel kindness”; “Festina
lente” (hasten slowly); “cruel love”; “blessed misfortunes.”

Many Americanisms are Oxymorons: e.g., “powerful weak,” “cruel
easy,” etc., etc.

The Scriptures have many examples: which are very instructive,
because God’s wisdom is esteemed foolish by man, and is yet so
wiseas to be far beyond his comprehension. This affords a wide field
for the use of this most expressive figure.

Job. 22:6.-“And stripped the naked of their clothing.”

Here the figure Synecdoche (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) turns the

phrase into a powerful Oxymoron.
Isa. 58:10.-“Thy darkness shall be as the noon-day.” See under
Antimetathesis.
Jer. 22:19.-“He shall be buried with the burial of an ass”: i.e., not
buried at all; he shall have an unburied burial! Compare 2Ch. 36:6,
and Jer. 36:30; and see under Enallage.

Mat. 6:23.-“If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great
is that darkness.”

How can light be darkness? The Oxymoron arises from the
Metonymy by which “light” is put for the human wisdom of the natural
man, which is darkness (Eph. 4:18).

Mat. 16:25.-“Whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever
will lose his life for my sake shall find it.”

So Mar. 8:35.

Act. 5:41.-“Rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame
for his name.”

This may sound folly to the natural man, but those who have been
“made wise” understand it. The two contrary Greek words mark the
Oxymoron more emphatically:-KaTagioGo8ai (kataxiousthai), to be
accounted very worthy, and ἁτιμασθῆναι (atimastheenai), to be
treated as unworthy, or with indignity. (See under Metonymy).
1Co. 1:25.-“The foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the
weakness of God is stronger than men.”

See under Parechesis, Metonymy (of Adjunct), and Catachresis.
1Co. 1:27-29 is a beautiful and elaborate Oxymoron; in order to
enhance the conclusion “that no flesh should glory in his presence.”
1Co. 9:17.-“If | do this thing willingly (ἑκών, without wages), | have a
reward (µισθόν, wages).”

See under Paronomasia and Meiosis.
2Co. 6:4; 2Co. 6:8-10.-“Approving ourselves as the ministers of God

As deceivers, and yet true;

As unknown, and yet well-known;

As dying, and, behold, we live;....

As chastened, and not killed;

As sorrowful, yet alway rejoicing;

As poor, yet making many rich;
As having nothing, and yet possessing all things.”
2Co. 8:2.-“Their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their
liberality.”

This is a most elegant Oxymoron.
2Co. 12:10.-“When | am weak, then am | strong.”

This is folly to the natural man, but blessed truth to those who
know by experience the true wisdom.
2Co. 12:11.-“In nothing am | behind the very chiefest apostles, though
| be nothing.”
Eph. 3:8.-“Less than the least of all saints.” This pleasing Oxymoron
emphasises the apostle’s growth in grace (i.e., in his knowledge of
what grace was to him, and what it had done for him). Before this, (in
a.d. 60), he said: “I was not behind the very chiefest apostles” (20ο.
11:5) In a.d. 62, he could say that he was “less than the least of all
saints,” while, later than this, (a.d. 67), his knowledge of God’s grace
made him see himself as “the chief of sinners” (1Ti. 1:15-16). See
under Meiosis.
1Ti. 5:6.-“She that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth.”
This Oxymoron arises from a latent Ploce (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]
), the word “dead” denoting the absence of spiritual life: “dead in
trespasses and sins.”
Idioma; or, Idiom
The peculiar usage of Words and Phrases
Id-i-6’-ma. Greek, ἰδίωμα, a peculiarity, from ἴδιος (idios), one’s own,*
[Note: Hence ἰδιώτης (idi‘tees), our English idiot: 1.Θ., a private person,
as opposite to one, engaged in public affairs. Hence, a civilian as
opposed to a military man; a layman, as opposed to a cleric or lawyer;
an amateur, as opposed to a professional; a prose-writer, as opposed
to a poet; an ignorant person, as opposed to a learned person. Hence,
again, anyone unskilled or unpractised in any particular art or science;
the opposite of expert. Thus, as knowledge and learning became
more common, the term idiot came to be limited to one who is ignorant
and unable to understand much.] and ἰδιωτισμός (id-i-o-tis’-mos), the
common manner of speaking. Whence the Latin name for the figure
IDIOTISMUS. The English name for it is IDIOM.

The word is used in three significations:

(1) The language peculiar to the vulgar, as opposed to what is
classical.

(2) The language peculiar to one nation or tribe, as opposed to
other languages or dialects.

(3) The language peculiar to any particular author or speaker.

It is in the second of these senses that it becomes important as a
figure of speech.

The fact must ever be remembered that, while the language of the
New Testament is Greek, the agents and instruments employed by the
Holy Spirit were Hebrews. God spake “by the mouth of his holy
prophets.” Hence, while the “mouth” and the throat and vocal-chords
and breath were human, the words were Divine.

No one is able to understand the phenomenon; or explain how it
comes to pass: for Inspiration is a fact to be believed and received,
and not a matter to be reasoned about.

While therefore, the words are Greek, the thoughts and idioms are
Hebrew.

Some, on this account, have condemned the Greek of the New
Testament, because it is not classical; while others, in their anxiety to
defend it, have endeavoured to find parallel usages in classical Greek
authors.

Both might have spared their pains by recognising that the New
Testament Greek abounds with Hebraisms: i.e., expressions
conveying Hebrew usages and thoughts in Greek words.

It will be seen at once that this is a subject which has a large and
important bearing on the interpretation and clear understanding of
many passages in the New Testament.

Much is said in favour of a literal translation. But in many cases
this makes no sense whatever, and would sometimes make
nonsense. What is wanted is an idiomatic version: i.e., the exact
reproduction, not of the words, but of the thought and meaning of the
phrase. It is in this that the difference is seen between the Authorized
Version and the Revised. The former is a Version, while the latter is a
translation. Hence the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] is English, while the RV; often is not.

This refers to words as well as to phrases. To bring the matter
home, imagine an Englishman and an American translating from the
French:-Gare, the one would render “Station,” and the other “Depot”:
Wagon de marchandises would be in English “Goods-Truck”; and in
America, “Freight Car’: Bureau (de billets) would be “Booking Office”
and “Ticket Office” respectively; En Voiture would be, in English, “Take
your seats”: and in America, “All abroad.”

Fancy rendering Mont de pi't', literally mountain of piety, instead of
“pawn-shop”! or Commissionaire de pi't', literally Commissionaire of
Piety, instead of “Pawnbroker”! or Faire des chateux en Espagne,
literally to make castles in Spain instead of “to build castles in the air”!
Or Tomber dans Геаи, literally to fall into the water, instead of “to
fall to the ground,” or more colloquially “to fall through”!

On the other hand, what would a Frenchman understand if “How
do you do?” were rendered literally, instead of idiomatically: “How do
you carry yourself,”* [Note: Or the German: How goes it? wie gehts?]
or “the water of life,” Eau de vie! instead of “Eau vive.”

All this makes it perfectly clear that, unless the translation be
idiomatic, there must be grave mistakes made; and that, if a
translation be absolutely literal, it will be a fruitful source of errors.

The importance of this fact can hardly be over-rated; and,
considering the way in which many talk of, and insist on, a “literal”
translation, it is necessary to press the point and enforce it by
examples from the Scriptures.

Idiom, however, is not generally classed among Figures in the
technical sense of the word. But, as the words do not mean literally
what they say, and are not used or combined according to their literal
signification, they are really Figures; and we have, therefore, included
them here.

We will consider them under the following divisions: giving only a
few examples under each by way of illustration:-
|. Idiomatic usage of Verbs.
Il. Special idiomatic usages of Nouns and Verbs.
Ill. Idiomatic Degrees of Comparison.
IV. Idiomatic use of Prepositions.
V. Idiomatic use of Numerals.
VI. Idiomatic forms of Quotation.
VIL. Idiomatic forms of Question.
ΙΙ. Idiomatic Phrases.
IX. Idioms arising from other Figures of Speech.
X. Changes in usage of Words in the Greek language.
ΧΙ. Changes in usage of Words in the English language.
I. Verbs in General
i. Idiomatic usages of Verbs
1. The Hebrews used active verbs to express the agent’s design
or attempt to do anything, even though the thing was not actually
done
Exo. 8:18 (14).-“And the magicians did so ({6., attempted to do so)

with their enchantments, to bring forth lice, but they could not.”
Deu. 28:68.-“Ye shall be sold (i.e., put up for sale) unto your enemies
„.. and no man shall buy you.”
Eze. 24:13.-“Because | have purged thee (i.e., used the means to
purge, by instructions, reproofs and ordinances, etc.), and thou wast
not purged.”

We have the same usage in the New Testament.
Mat. 17:11.-“Elijah truly cometh first, and restoreth all things”: {6.,
shall begin to restore or design or attempt to do so, for Christ will be
the real Restorer of all things. The contrast here, however, is between
Elijah and John, as brought out by the μὲν and the δέ. “Elijah, indeed
(μὲν, in one respect) cometh, and will restore all things, but (δέ, in
another respect) | say unto you that Elijah is come already,” etc.
Gal. 5:4.-“Whosoever of you are justified (i.e., seek to be justified) by
the law; ye are fallen from grace”: for chap. 3:11 distinctly declares
that “no man is justified by the law in the sight of God.”
Php. 3:15.-“As many as be ({6., would be, or try to be) perfect.”
1Jn. 1:10.-“We make him (i.e., we attempt so far as in us lies to make
him) a liar.” (See also chapter 5:10).
1Jn. 2:26.-“These things have | written unto you concerning them that
seduce (or deceive) you”: i.e., that would, or that try to, deceive you.

2. Active Verbs are sometimes used to denote the effect of the

action expressed

Isa. 65:1.-“I am sought of them that asked not for me”: i.e., | am found
of them that sought me not, as in Rom. 10:20.
Joh. 16:5.-“None of you asketh me whither goest thou”: i.e., none of
you knoweth or hath discovered; for Peter had asked that question in
13:36. Lit., None is enquiring.

3. Active Verbs are used to declare that the thing has been or
shall be done, and not the actual doing of the thing said to be
done
The Priest is said to cleanse or pollute according as he declares that
the thing is clean or polluted. See Lev. 13:6; Lev. 13:8; Lev. 13:11; Lev.
13:13; Lev. 13:17; Lev. 13:20, αἵο., where it is actually translated

“pronounce.” See under Metonymy (of the subject) and Synecdoche.
Act. 10:15.-“What God hath cleansed (i.e., declared to be clean) do
not thou pollute (i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] “call common’).”

Isa. 6:10.-“Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears
heavy,” i.e., declare, or foretell that the heart of this people will be fat,
etc. (See Metonymy). In Mat. 13:15, this idiomatic use of the verb is
not literally translated, but is idiomatically rendered “the heart of this
people is waxed gross.” So in Act. 28:27. While, in Joh. 12:40, it is
rendered literally according to the Hebrew idiom: “He hath blinded,”
etc.; but who hath done so is not said.

Jer. 1:10.-“I have this day set thee over the nations and over the

kingdoms, to root out, and to pull down,” etc.: ie., to declare or

prophesy concerning the nations that they shall be rooted out, etc.
The Anglo-Israelites, wrongly taking this literally, declare that Great

Britain is now literally fulfilling this prophecy!

Eze. 43:3.-“According to the vision that | saw when | came to destroy

the city,” etc.: ie., when | came to prophesy or declare that it should

be destroyed.

Eze. 22:2.-“Son of man, wilt thou judge, wilt thou judge the city of

bloods (i.e., of great bloodshedding)?” This is explained in the words

that follow: “Yea, thou shalt shew her (Heb., make her know) all her

abominations.” See under Heterosis.

4. Active verbs were used by the Hebrews to express, not the
doing of the thing, but the permission of the thing which the
agent is said to do. Thus:

Gen. 31:7.-Jacob says to Laban: “God did not give him to do me evil”:
ie., as in AV. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our

English Bible, 1611.] , God suffered him not, etc.
Exo. 4:21.-“I will harden his heart (i.e., | will permit or suffer his heart
to be hardened), that he shall not let the people go.” So in all the
passages which speak of the hardening of Pharaoh’s heart. As is clear
from the common use of the same /diom in the following passages.
Exo. 5:22.-“Lord, wherefore hast thou so evil entreated this people?”
ie., suffered them to be so evil entreated.

Psa. 16:10.-“Thou wilt not give thine Holy One (i.e., suffer Him) to see
corruption.” So the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.]

Jer. 4:10.-“Lord God, surely thou hast greatly deceived this people”:
i.e., thou hast suffered this People to be greatly deceived, by the false
prophets, saying: Ye shall have peace, etc.

Eze. 14:9.-“If the prophet be deceived when he hath spoken a thing, |
the Lord have deceived that prophet”: {6., | have permitted him to
deceive himself.

Eze. 20:25.-“Wherefore | gave them also statutes that were not good”:
i.e., | permitted them to follow the wicked statutes of the surrounding
nations, mentioned and forbidden in Lev. 18:3.

Mat. 6:13.-“Lead us not (i.e., suffer us not to be led) into temptation.”
Mat. 11:25.-“l thank thee, О Father ... because thou hast hid (i.e., not
revealed) these things,” etc.
Mat. 13:11.-“It is given to know unto you,” etc. (i.e., ye are permitted to
know ... but they are not permitted to know them.

Act. 13:29.-“When they (i.e., the rulers, verse 27) had fulfilled all that
was written of him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him т а
sepulchre”: i.e., they permitted Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus
to do so.

Rom. 9:18.-“Whom he will he hardeneth”: i.e., he suffereth to be
hardened. Not that this in any way weakens the absolute sovereignty
of God.

Rom. 11:7.-“The rest were hardened”: i.e., were suffered to become
blind (as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ).

Rom. 11:8.-“God hath given them the spirit of slumber”: i.e., hath
suffered them to fall asleep.

2Th. 2:11.-“For this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that
they should believe a lie”: i.e., God will leave them and suffer them to
be deceived by the great Lie which will come on all the world.

5. Active verbs are used to express, not the doing of a thing, but
the occasion of a thing’s being done
Gen. 42:38.-“If mischief befall him by the way ... then shall ye bring
down (i.e., ye shall be the occasion of bringing down) my gray hairs,”
etc.
1Ki. 14:16.-Jeroboam “made Israel to sin”: ie., was the cause of
Israel's sin by setting up the two calves in Bethel and Dan.
Act. 1:18.-“This man purchased a field” (i.e., caused the field to be
purchased), as is plain from Mat. 27:7.

6. Two imperatives are sometimes united, so that the first
expresses a condition or limitation in regard to the second; by
which the latter becomes a future
This idiom was also used by the Latins “Divide et impera,” not divide

and govern, but divide and thou wilt govern.

Joh. 7:52.-“Search and look”: {6., search and thou wilt see.

1Со. 15:34,-“Awake to righteousness, and sin not”: i.e., and then ye
will not sin.

1Ti. 6:12.-“Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold of eternal life”: {6.,
thou shalt lay hold of, etc.
Sometimes the future is used literally instead of the idiomatic
second imperative. See Joh. 2:19. Jam. 4:7. In Eph. 5:14, we have
two imperatives and then the future.

ii. Special idiomatic usages of Nouns and Verbs
(1) Noun (in regimen) for Adjective. See under Heterosis.

(2) Noun (a second) for Adjective. See Hendiadys.

(3) Plural Nouns for emphatic singular. See Heterosis.

(4) Certain Adjectives or Nouns used in the New Testament,
according to Hebrew idiom, in a sense peculiar to themselves:-

“Able,” when applied to God or Christ, denotes both willingness
and ability. Rom. 4:21; Rom. 11:23; Rom. 14:4; Rom. 16:25. Heb.
2:18.

“All” often denotes the greater part. 1Co. 8:1, for see verse 17.
1Co. 11:2.

“All” often means the greatest degree or quality of that to which it
is applied. 1Co. 13:2. 2Ti. 1:15. Jam. 1:2.
“All” signifies some of every kind. Mat. 4:23. Act. 10:12. See
further for the usage of the word “all,” under Metonymy and
Synecdoche.

“A blessing’ signifies a gift.

Gen. 33:11.-Jacob says to Esau: “Take, | pray thee, my blessing ({6.,
my gift and present) that is brought to thee; because God hath dealt
graciously with me, and because | have enough (Heb., all things). And
he urged him, and he took it”: {6., everything.

1Sa. 25:27.-“This blessing (i.e., gift; margin, present) which thine
handmaid hath brought.”

Rom. 15:29.-“I shall come in the fulness of the blessing (i.e., the gift)
of the Gospel of Christ.”
2Co. 9:5.-“That they would go before unto you, and make up
beforehand your blessing”: i.e., your gift to the saints (see A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ).

“Doctrine” (διδαχή, didachee) means the thing taught; but it is
used idiomatically and by Metonymy (α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ), for the
discourse in which it is taught.

This is because it denotes more than διδασκαλία (didaskalia), for it
has to do with the style of teaching; the manner as well as the thing
taught. See, e.g., Mat. 7:28-29.
Mar. 4:2.-“He taught them many things by parables, and said unto
them in his doctrine”: i.e., his teaching or discourse. So chap. 11:18;
12:38.
Act. 2:42.-“And they continued stedfastly in the apostles’ doctrine”:
ie., they regularly attended at the teaching of the apostles: i.e., when
they taught.
1Co. 14:26.-“Every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, etc.”:
i.e., a discourse to give.

“To eat or drink.”-As the Hebrews used the nouns meat and drink
of knowledge (by Metonymy, α.ν. [Note: Which see] ), so they
naturally used the verbs eating and drinking to denote the operation of
the mind in receiving, understanding, and applying doctrine or
instruction of any kind, as we speak of “digesting” what is said, or of
“inwardly digesting’ it.

It thus marks a very intimate and real partaking of the benefits of
that which we receive through our minds.

Jer. 15:16.-“Thy words were found, and | did eat them.” The rest of
the verse explains the figure.

Eze. 3:1.-“Son of man ... eat this roll, and go speak unto the house of
Israel”: i.e., consider it, and get the contents of this roll by heart, and
then go and speak it to the house of Israel, as is clear from verse 4:
“Speak with my words unto them.”

Joh. 6:51.-“I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if
any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever”: i.e., just as the body
lives temporally by eating bread, so the new life is nourished by
feeding upon Christ in our hearts by faith.

So, verse 53: “Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink
his blood, ye have no life in you”: {6., except you feed on Christ in
your hearts and partake of His life (for the blood is the life), ye have no
life in you. That this cannot refer to the Lord’s supper is clear from the
fact that it was not then instituted, and the words could not have been
understood (as they were); and, further, that it would shut out all who,
from age and infirmity or other cause, had not partaken of that supper.

It cannot refer to the Mass, as there is no drinking at all in the
Mass.

By comparing verses 47 and 40 with verses 53 and 54, it will be
seen that believing on Christ is exactly the same thing as eating and
drinking of His flesh and blood.
1Co. 12:13.-“And have been all made to drink into one spirit”: i.e.,
receive. Compare Luk. 13:15.

“Not to be” is a Hebraism for to be abject and vile, to be nothing
(10ο. 1:28); while on the other hand,

“To be” means to be in high esteem, or of great value (1Co. 1:28).
God hath chosen “things which are not, to bring to nought things that
are.” So also
2Sa. 19:6 (9).-“Thou regardest neither princes nor servants.” Here, the
figure is translated; for the Heb. is (as in the margin: “that princes and
servants are not to thee.”) R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] :
“Are nought unto thee.”
“To permit.” Heb. 6:3 : “This will we do, if God permit”: i.e., if God
so orders it, and gives the needed grace and strength.
“To seek.” Mat. 6:32 : “After all these things do the Gentiles seek”:
ie., they put them in the first place, and are over-anxious, with
excessive solicitude. So Luk. 12:30.

“To salute.” Act. 18:22 : “And when he had ... gone up, and
saluted the church”: i.e., and had held familiar intercourse with them.
Compare 20:1. See also 21:7, 19; 25:13. This is shown from the
opposite; 2Ki. 4:29 : “Salute him not”: {6., do not stop to talk with him.
So Luk. 10:4.

“To touch’ for to hurt or to do any harm to. Gen. 26:29. Rth. 2:9.
Job. 1:11; Job. 2:5; Job. 19:21. Psa. 105:15. Jer. 12:14. Eze. 17:10.
Zec. 2:8. Heb. 11:28. 1Jn. 5:18.

Also, “to touch” is used for cohabitation. Gen. 20:6. Pro. 6:29. 1Co.
τι.

Also, for detention, or for diverting from any purpose. Joh. 20:17.

“To come”: where the simple verb is used for all that pertains to
Christ's advent. Mat. 11:3. 1Jn. 4:2-3; 1Jn. 5:6.

“To see another’ is used for making war with him, or of meeting
him in battle. 2Ki. 14:8; 2Ki. 14:11; 2Ki. 23:29, etc.
“To build” is used for restore anything to all its former glory. Eze.
26:14.

“To walk” is used for proceeding happily and prosperously. Hos.
14:9.

“To hear” is used of understanding and obeying. Joh. 8:47. Luk.
8:15.

“To confess’ is used of abiding in the faith, and walking according
to truth. 1Jn. 4:15. Rom. 10:9-10. So also Mat. 10:32.

“Able to say” is used of being able really and truly to affirm from
the heart. Pro. 20:9.
1Co. 12:3.-“No man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy
Ghost.” Any one can utter the words; but no one can truly, with the
whole heart, own Jesus as his Lord, and take Him for his Master, but
by the Holy Ghost.

“To eat and drink” is a Hebraism used not merely for chewing
food or swallowing any liquid, but for good living and drinking wine;
Mat. 11:18-19 with Luk. 7:33-34 and Pro. 31:4.

“To do” for to bring to pass, do a very great deal, do all. So it is
translated in Psa. 37:5. Dan. 9:19.

“To do (i.e., commit) sin” means to sin wilfully and willingly. 1Jn.
3:9. See 1:8, 10; 5:18. Joh. 8:34.

“To do justice or righteousness” is used for willingly, earnestly
and joyfully walking and living as one whom God has justified. 1Jn.
3:7.

“To work’ is used of seeking to gain salvation by human merit.
Rom. 4:4-5, as opposed to grace (chap. 11:6).

“To give account” means not simply to render a mere account,
but to suffer all the consequences of unrighteousness. 1Pe. 4:5. Mat.
12:36.

“To will” is used for to wish to do anything speedily and
spontaneously. 2Co. 8:11. The figure is well translated “to be forward”
(verse 10)-as being greater even than the actual doing.

Also for eager desire (Mar. 10:35; Mar. 12:38), where the figure is
well translated “which love to go in long clothing,” etc. Gal. 4:21,
where it is well rendered “desire.” “Tell me, ye that desire (love) to be
under the law.” So it ought to be rendered in 1Ti. 6:9 : “They that will to
be rich”: i.e., love to be rich.
“To look” or “to see” is often used (a) implying the delight or
pleasure felt by the beholder (whether it be sinful or innocent): Psa.
22:17 (18); 35:21; 59:10 (11). (b) Sometimes also as implying sorrow
and grief: Gen. 21:16; Gen. 44:34. Joh. 19:37 (compare Zec.
12:10-14. Rev. 1:7). (ο) And sometimes implying attention and
provision: 2Ki. 10:3. Mat. 7:5. 1Co. 10:12 (where the figure is well
translated “take heed,” as it is also in Col. 4:17).
“To live” is used not merely of being alive, or having life, but of
having all that makes life worth living, flourishing and prospering. 1Sa.
10:24, where the figure is rendered “God save,” “God save the king.”
The Heb. is “Let the king live.” So also 1Ki. 1:25. In 1Sa. 25:6, it is
rendered “That liveth in prosperity.” Psa. 22:26 (27); 69:32 (33). Ecc.
6:8. 1Th. 3:8. (The opposite of this is 1Sa. 25:37 : “his heart died
within him’).

The word “life” has also the same usage, Psa. 34:12 (13). 1Pe.
3:10, as it has also in our English idiom.

“To hear.” The verb ἀκούειν (akouein), to hear, is used
idiomatically when followed by the accusative case. It then means, not
only to hear the voice of the person speaking (which is indicated by
the genitive case following), but to understand, to receive, to believe,
etc., what is said, having regard, not to the speaker, but to the subject-
matter.

The apparent discrepancy between Act. 9:7 and Act. 22:9 is
explained by this idiomatic use of ἀκούειν (akouein). In the former
passage it is followed by the genitive case, and means that they heard
the sound of the voice; while in the latter passage, it is followed by the
accusative case, and means that they did not hear the subject-matter:
ie., they heard the sound of the voice, but did not understand what
was said.

Joh. 8:43.-“Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye
cannot hear (i.e., receive) my word.”

Joh. 9:27.-“I have told you already, and ye did not hear ({6., believe).
Why again do ye desire to hear?” In the latter clause it is used in its
ordinary sense; in the former idiomatically.

1Со. 14:2.-“He that speaketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not to
men, but to God, for no one heareth ({6., understandeth) him.” The
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] so renders it, and puts “heareth” in the margin.

Gal. 4:21.-“Ye, that desire to be under law, do ye not hear (i.e.,
understand) the Law?”

1Со. 5:1.-“It is commonly heard ({6., understood) that there is
fornication among you.” The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has “reported.”

“Hearing” акой (akoee) is used, not merely of the act of hearing,
but of what is heard: a narration, report, fame. This is a kind of
Metonymy (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

Mat. 14:1.-“Herod the tetrarch heard the hearing (i.e., the fame) of
Jesus.”
Joh. 12:38.-“Who hath believed our hearing?” (/.e., our report).

“Called.” To be called is used of being acknowledged, accounted,
or simply of being.
1Jn. 3:1.-“That we should be called the sons of God.”

“Holy” means primarily that which is ceremonially clean and free
from defilement.

Deu. 23:14.-“Therefore shall thy camp be holy: that he see no unclean
thing.”

Hence it means separated from a common to a sacred or special
use. For places and inanimate things can clearly be holy only in this
special sense, and not as regards intrinsic moral purity.

The word Holy in Hebrew sometimes means bountiful, merciful,
beneficent. And so may have the same meaning in some passages of
the New Testament. See Tit. 1:8. Heb. 7:26, etc.

“Honour” has a wide range of meaning in Hebrew, and is used of
nourishment, maintenance.

Mat. 15:6.-“And shall not honour (i.e., support) his father or his
mother.”
1Со. 12:26.-“Or one member be honoured (i.e., nourished) all the
members rejoice with it.”

1Ti. 5:3.-“Honour widows that are really widows,”: [.Θ., maintain them
out of the funds of the church, as is clear from verse 4.
1Ti. 5:17.-“Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double
honour’: i.e., of a liberal (see Metonymy) maintenance.”

1Pe. 3:7.-“Giving honour unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel”:
i.e., nourishing and supporting her, etc.

“Hand.” For various idiomatic phrases in connection with the word
“hand,” see under Metonymy.

“Living” was used by the Hebrews to express the excellency of
the thing to which it is applied. In some cases the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has
“lively.”

Joh. 4:10-11.-“Living water.”
Act. 7:38.-“Living oracles.”
Heb. 10:20.-“Living way.”
1Pe. 2:4-5.-“Living stones.”
Rev. 7:17.-“Living fountains.”

“Riches” denotes not merely money, but an abundance of that to
which it is applied; as our English word “wealth” is used of things other
than money.
Rom. 2:4.-“Or despisest thou the riches (i.e., the greatness) of his
goodness?” {6., His abounding goodness, or wealth of goodness.
Eph. 1:7.-“According to the riches (i.e., the great abundance or
wealth) of his grace.”

Eph. 3:8.-“The unsearchable (or the untrackable) riches (i.e., wealth
or greatness) of Christ.” This greatness consisting of all God’s
purposes in Christ as set forth in this epistle; which the Old Testament
saints could not trace out or understand. See 1Pe. 1:10-11.

Col. 1:27.-“What is the riches ({6., the great abundance) of the glory
of this Mystery.”

Col. 2:2.-“All riches of the full assurance of understanding”: i.e., the
abundant or fullest assurance of knowledge.

“To sanctify” often means to make ceremonially clean: i.e., to
cleanse a thing from those defilements which made it unfit for sacred
uses. Hence, it means simply to set apart, fit, or prepare for a
particular purpose.

Jer. 12:3.-“Sanctify (i.e., prepare) them for the day of slaughter.”
1Co. 7:14.-“For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and
the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband”: each (though one
be an unbeliever) is fitted to perform the respective duties as husband
and wife. So with the children, “now are they holy”: i.e., they were to
be no longer reckoned as idolators, but were separated from heathen
associations, and ceremonially free from such defilement. See under
“holy” above.

How can we “sanctify God,” as in Isa. 8:13. Mat. 6:9. 1Ре. 3:15,
except by setting Him high above and apart from every other object of
respect and veneration?

“Spirit? was used in various combinations by the Hebrews to
denote the greatest degree of any mental quality. As we speak of the
spirit or essence of any person or thing!

Luk. 10:21.-“Jesus rejoiced in spirit”: .e., exceedingly.

Act. 18:25.-“Being fervent in spirit” means exceedingly zealous. So
Rom. 12:11.

Act. 19:21.-“Paul purposed in spirit”: /.e., firmly resolved.

Act. 20:22.-“Behold, | go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem”: i.e., with
a fixed determination and settled purpose.

Rom. 1:9.-“Whom | serve with my spirit’: ie., with the most fervent
zeal.
“Walk” is used of one’s continued course of action and life: i.e., the
habitual habit and manner of life.

Gen. 5:22; Gen. 5:24.-“Enoch walked with God.”
Rom. 8:1.-“Who walk not after the flesh,” etc.
2Co. 5:7.-“We walk by faith, not by sight.”

“Word” (λόγος, Jogos) in the New Testament follows the Hebrew
idiom; and signifies not merely a word, but speech, which is the
outcome of words. Hence, it is used of any matter, thing, or affair of
any kind.

Luk. 1:2.-“Were eye witnesses and ministers of the Word”: i.e., the
Living Word, the Lord Jesus Christ.
Act. 6:2.-“It is not reason that we should leave the word of God (ie.,
the preaching and ministry of the Gospel), and serve tables.”
Act. 10:44.-“The Holy Ghost fell on them that heard the word”: {6., the
Gospel which Peter preached.
Mat. 21:24.-“I also shall ask you one word”: i.e., one thing, or a
question as to one matter.
Act. 10:29.-Ч ask therefore for what word (i.e., as in A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , for
what intent) ye have sent for me.”
Act. 19:38.-“Have a word.” The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has a matter; but according to
the Heb. idiom, an accusation.
1Co. 15:2.-“If ye keep in memory by what word | preached unto you”:
i.e., what was the subject-matter of my preaching.

Thus the word must take its colouring from the context. In Exo.
34:28, it means the ten commandments. So in Rom. 13:9.

In 1Co. 14:19, it means sentences.

The word “son” was used, not only by Synecdoche (q.v. [Note:
Which зее.] ), but idiomatically, and not according to Greek usage.

“A son of death” (1Sa. 20:31) means devoted to death, and is
rendered in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] : “he shall surely die.” So Psa. 102:20 (21).

This idiom means that the persons thus spoken of belong very
emphatically to that which they are thus said to be “sons of.”

“Sons of the bride-chamber.” Mat. 9:15. Luk. 5:34.

A “son of hell.” Mat. 23:15.

“Sons of the wicked one.” Mat. 13:38.

“Son of the devil.” Act. 13:10.

“Sons of disobedience.” This is very much stronger than the mere
tame expression disobedient children. It means that they pertain to
and belong to Satan in a special manner; are those in whom he works
(Eph. 2:2), and on whom the wrath of God comes (Eph. 5:6). It does
not say that God’s children were such, but only that we had our
conversation “among” them. We were, by nature, “sons of wrath”
(Eph. 2:3): ᾖ9., those deserving of God's wrath; but, through His grace
another has borne that wrath, as verses 4-7 goes on to say.
“The son of perdition” (2Th. 2:3. Joh. 17:12) is one who is lost in a
very emphatic and terrible sense.

See under Synecdoche.

iii. Idiomatic Degrees of Comparison
In the Hebrew there are several idiomatic ways of emphasizing
adjectives, and making them superlative.
1. Preposition after Adjective

By the use of the preposition “in” or “among” after a simple adjective,
as Pro. 30:30, “a lion, strong among beasts”: i.e., the strongest of
beasts.

The New Testament has the same /diom.
Luk. 1:42.-“Blessed art thou among women”: i.e., the most blessed of
women.
2. Noun (in regimen) for Adjective
By using a noun (by Enallage) instead of an adjective, and putting it in
regimen: as “angels of might,” which is stronger than simply using the
ordinary adjective “mighty.” “Kingdom of Heaven”: i.e., God’s kingdom,
as greater and better than all kingdoms which are “of” (ek) this world.
See for examples under Enallage.

3. Noun repeated in Genitive Plural
By repeating the same noun in the genitive plural, as “Heaven of
heavens”: {6., the highest heaven. See under Polyptoton.

4. “Of God” as Adjective

By using the words “of God” instead of an adjective, e.g.,
1Sa. 14:15.-“Tremblings of God”: i.e., great or very mighty tremblings,
meaning an earthquake.
Psa. 36:6 (7)-“Mountains of God”: ie., the loftiest or grandest
mountains. See under Enallage.
5. Duplication of Noun as Adjective
By the repetition of the same word, as “peace, peace”: {6., perfect
peace. So
Mat. 23:7 : “Rabbi, Rabbi”: i.e., most excellent Rabbi.
Mat. 7:21.-“Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord”: i.e., most
gracious Lord.
Mar. 14:45.-“Master, master”: i.e., most excellent Master. See further
under Epizeuxis.
6. Two Nouns conjoined

By using a noun instead of an adjective, not in regimen, but (by
Hendiadys) in the same case and number, and joined to the other
noun by a conjunction.
2Sa. 20:19.-“A city and a mother’: i.e., a metropolitan city.
Act. 14:13.-“Oxen and garlands”: {Θ., oxen-yes, and garlanded oxen
too. See under Hendiadys.

7. Plural Noun for Singular Adjective
By using the plural instead of the singular.
Psa. 51:17 (19).-“The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit,” etc.: i.e.,
the great sacrifice which God requires is a broken spirit and a contrite
heart. See under Heterosis.

8. Verb and Cognate Noun
Even a verb can be exalted to a superlative degree, as well as an
adjective, by using with it a cognate noun: e.g.,
Luk. 22:15.-“With desire | have desired”: {6., | have greatly desired.
Act. 4:17.-“Let us threaten them with a threat”: i.e., let us threaten
them very severely.
Act. 5:28.-“Did we not charge you with a charge”: i.e., did we not
straitly charge you. See under Polyptoton.

9. Verb and its Participle
A verb can also be emphasized superlatively by combining with it its
participle: e.g., “Seeing | have seen”: {6., | have surely seen. “Dying
thou wilt die”: i.e., thou wilt surely die. See under Polyptoton.
iv. Idiomatic Use of Prepositions
Prepositions are used in the New Testament not according to the
Greek idiom, but to the Hebrew. The Greeks had many prepositions,
but the Hebrews had very few. Consequently, used according to the
Hebrew Idiom, the manifold relations cannot be expressed with great
definiteness.

The few Hebrew prepositions are used in the Old Testament with
various meanings which can be easily gathered from the context. For
example, the Hebrew ? (beth) means primarily in; but it also
frequently means by (with reference to the instrument used), or
among; or at, or near; also upon, and with. Now the Greeks have, and
would have used, a different preposition for each of these.

It is a great mistake, therefore, always to translate ἐν (en), in, as is
too frequently done in the New Testament. It must be taken with all the
shades and breadth of meaning which the Hebrew beth (2) has.
When the Greek of the New Testament is put into Hebrew, this fact is
at once clearly seen.

For example:-

Mat. 3:11.-John said, “I indeed baptize you with water.”
Mat. 7:2.-“With what judgment ye judge ... with what measure ye
meet.”
Mat. 7:6.-“Lest they trample them with (A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ‚ under) their feet.”
Mar. 3:22.-“By the prince of the devils.”
Luk. 11:20.-“With the finger of God.”
Luk. 22:49.-“Shall we smite with the sword.”
Rev. 1:5.-“Washed us from our sins by (or through) his own blood,”
not “in,” as A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
renders this “by,” and puts in the margin, “Greek, in.”
Rev. 5:9.-Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text
of our English Bible, 1611.] renders it properly “by.”

v. Idiomatic Use of Numerals
1. According to the Hebrew idiom, the numeral cic (heis), one, is

used instead of the ordinary pronoun

Mat. 8:19.-“One scribe said to him”: i.e., one of the scribes, or a
certain particular scribe.
See also 9:18; 16:14; 18:24, 28; 21:19; 26:69. Mar. 10:17; Mar.
12:42. Luk. 5:12; Luk. 5:17. Joh. 6:9; Joh. 7:21; Joh. 20:7. Rev. 8:13,
etc.

2. Sometimes, following the Hebrew idiom, the negative is joined
with the verb instead of with the predicate: e.g.

Mat. 10:29.-“One of them shall not fall.” The ordinary Greek idiom

would be, “not one (οὐδείς) of them shall fall.” Luk. 12:6.

3. The adjective ac (pas), every or all is frequently so used
The Hebrews would say everything is not, and this is put instead of
the ordinary Greek idiom, nothing is.

Psa. 103:2.-“Forget not all his benefits”: i.e., forget not any.
Luk. 1:37.-“Every thing will not be impossible with God”: i.e., nothing
is impossible.

So Mat. 24:22. Mar. 13:20. Joh. 3:15-16; Joh. 6:39; Joh. 12:46.
Rom. 3:20. 1Со. 1:29. Gal. 2:16. 1Jn. 2:21. Rev. 18:22.
4. In Hebrew the numeral is doubled to express distribution
We find this in the New Testament, instead of the Greek idiom which
expresses it by the preposition avd (ana). We find the Hebrew idiom,
e.g., in Mar. 6:7, “He sent them two two” (i.e., two and two together):
ie., in pairs. Compare the Greek idiom in Luk. 10:1.

This idiom is not confined to numerals, for we find it with other
nouns: 6.0.,

Mar. 6:39, by companies (so Exo. 8:14 (10), LXX [Note: XX The
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ).

In Mar. 6:40, both the Hebrew and Greek idioms are used.

Compare Luk. 9:14. 2Co. 4:16.

vi. Idiomatic forms of Quotations
In quotations the Hebrews generally omitted the word “saying,”
whenever the words of another speaker were quoted. They very
frequently stand alone without the verb “saying.” Hence it is often
supplied by italics. See Psa. 2:2, but sometimes even italics are
omitted, and the passage is most obscure.
Psa. 109:1-31 -“Saying” should be added in italics at the end of verse
5; all the words down to the end of verse 19 being the words of
David's adversaries which they spake against David. See this
passage under Ellipsis (page 33).
Psa. 144:12 should begin with the word “saying”; verses 12 to the
middle of verse 15 being the “vanity” and the “falsehood” which the
“strange children” spake (verses 8, 11).

See this passage also under Ellipsis (page 33).

From this usage another idiom followed, in the asking of a
question.

vii. Idiomatic Forms of Question

In Hebrew a question often begins with “if: ie., “if this be done”
means “tell me whether this is done.” But the Greeks never used the
“if in this sense in order to ask a question. In Greek it always
expresses a condition. Yet, following the Hebrew idiom, we have:
Luk. 22:49.-“/f we shall smite with sword”: {.6., shall we smite, etc.
viii. Idiomatic Phrases
1. “Answered and said” was used by Hebrew idiom of whatever kind
of speech is in question
It should therefore not be rendered literally, “Answered and said,” but
translated so as to express whatever may be the particular kind of
speech referred to in the verb “said”; e.g.:
Mat. 11:25.-“At that time Jesus answered and said, | thank thee, O
Father,” etc.
This should be, “At that time Jesus prayed and said,” etc.
Mar. 12:25.-“At that time Jesus answered and said, while he taught in
the temple, How say the scribes that Christ, etc.”
Here it should be “Asked and said.” So Mar. 13:2, etc.
Mar. 11:14.-“And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of
thee hereafter for ever.”
It is clear that this cannot be literally meant, for the tree had said
nothing. It should be “Jesus addressed the tree, and said to it.”
2. My soul, your soul, their souls, is the Hebrew idiom for myself,
yourself, yourselves, etc.
See Num. 23:10. Jdg. 16:30. Psa. 59:3 (4); 35:13; 103:1; 121:7, Jer.
18:20 (cf. [Note: f. Compare (for Latin, confer).] 38:16).

Psa. 16:10.-“Thou wilt not leave my soul (i.e., me) in Sheol (or Hades,
the grave). This is explained in the next line as meaning “thou wilt not
suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.”

So Act. 2:27; Act. 2:31; Act. 13:35.

It is resurrection from the grave which is taught and referred to
here, as is clear from Psa. 49:15 (16), where Sheo/ is properly
translated “grave.” See under Synecdoche.

3. “Out of the Way.”
ἐκ µέσου (2Th. 2:7) must not be translated literally, arise or become
developed “out of the midst,” as is done by a certain school of
prophetic students; because it is a Greek idiom for being out of the
way, and always implies decisive action, either of the person’s own
will or of force on the part of others.

Plutarch (Timol. 238. 3) says: “He determined to live by himself,
having got himself out of the way’ (i.e., from the public).

Herodotus (3. 83 and 8. 22). The speaker (in 8. 22) exhorts some,
and says: “Be on our side, but if this is impossible, then sit down out of
the way,” or as we should say in our idiom “stand aside” (not “arise out
of the midst”!)

The same idiom is found in Latin. Terence (Phorm. v. 8. 3) says:
“She is dead, she is gone from among us” (i.e., forced or torn away by
the cruel hand of death, “e medio abiit’).

The opposite expression shows the same thing.

In Xenophon (Cyr. v. 2. 26), some one asks: “What stands in the
way of your joining us?” (ἐν µέσῳ ἑστῆ: i.e., your standing in with us.

The same idiom is found in the Scriptures.

Mat. 13:49.-The wicked are “severed from among the just”: ({6.,
taken away by force).

Act. 17:33.-“Paul departed from among them.”

Act. 23:10.-Paul was taken “by force from among them.”

1Co. 5:2 is very clear: where the complaint is made that they had
not mourned that “he that hath done this deed might be taken away
from among you.”
2Co. 6:17.-“Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye
separate.”

Col. 2:14.-We read of the handwriting of ordinances which was
against us. Christ “took it out of the way.”

We have the same idiom in the Septuagint.

Isa. 52:11.-“Depart ye ... go ye out of the midst of her,” and

Isa. 57:1 (Ixx. 2).-“The righteous is taken away from the evil to
come.”

It is thus perfectly clear that, in 2Th. 2:7, where it says that he who
now holds fast [fo his position] will continue to do so until he is cast
out, the “he” is Satan, who is holding on to his position in the
heavenlies, until the great war shall take place (Rev. 12:1-17), and he
be cast out into the earth.

Then it is that (Rev. 13:1) “he stands (R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] ) on the sand of the sea,” and as the result of this the
two beasts rise up. They cannot, therefore, “arise” till Satan is cast
out. This is the teaching of 2Th. 2:1-17 See further under Ellipsis.

4. “Breaking of Bread.”
“To break bread,” κλάσαι ἄρτον (klasai arton), is the literal rendering of
the Hebrew idiom 22? 22? (paras lechem), and it means to
partake of food, and is used of eating as in a meal.* [Note: Just as
among the Arabs to-day, the Idiom, to eat salt, means partaking of a
meal.] The figure (or idiom) arose from the fact that among the
Hebrews bread was made, not in loaves as with us, but in round
cakes about as thick as the thumb. These were always broken, and
not cut. Hence the origin of the phrase {ο break bread. Indeed so
close is the connection that we sometimes have the word “break”
without “bread.” So clear is the meaning that there may be the Ellipsis
of the latter word.
See examples of this Hebrew idiom in Jer. 16:7 (see A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
margin) “Neither shall men break bread for them,” as in Eze. 24:17.
Hos. 9:4. See Deu. 26:14, and Job. 42:11.

Isa. 58:7.-“Is it not to break thy bread to the hungry?”

Lam. 4:4.-“The young children ask bread, and no man breaketh it
unto them.”

Eze. 18:7.-“Hath broken (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] given) bread to the hungry.”

We have the same Hebrew idiom in the Greek words of the New
Testament, and the readers could have had no other idea or meaning
in their minds (Mat. 14:19). He took the five loaves, and blessed, and
brake, and gave the loaves to his disciples, etc. This was in
connection with ordinary eating. See Mat. 15:36; Mar. 8:6; Mar. 8:19;
Mar. 14:22.

Luk. 24:30.-“And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he
took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.”

In verse 35, they speak of how Christ “was known of them in
breaking of bread,” i.e., as He sat at meat with them.

Act. 27:33-36.-“This day is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried
and continued fasting,* [Note: See under Synecdoche.] having taken
nothing. Wherefore | pray you take some meat: for this is for your
health: ... And when he had thus spoken, he took bread, and gave
thanks to God in presence of them all; and when he had broken it, he
began to eat. Then were they all of good cheer, and they also took
some meat.”

It is perfectly clear that in all these cases the “breaking of bread” is
the ordinary Hebrew idiom for eating as in a meal. The bread could
not be eaten till it was broken, hence the idiom which is used by
Hebrews down to the present day.

It is also evident that the Passover was a meal, and it was at this
meal, and of it, that the idiom is used in Mat. 26:26. Mar. 14:22 Luk.
22:19. 1Co. 11:24.

In Act. 2:46, their breaking bread at home (margin) is mentioned to
emphasise the fact that they no longer offered sacrifices, and
therefore could not eat of them in the Temple. So that though they
went to the Temple to worship, they ate their meat at home in their
private houses.
It is incredible, therefore, that in Act. 20:7, the idiomatic expression
can mean in any sense the Lord’s supper, as is clear also from verse
11.

The one solitary passage left is 1Co. 10:16, “The bread which we
break.” This is referred by some to the Lord’s supper in ignorance of
the prevailing custom of the early Christians when meeting together
on the first day of the week. Assemblies were few, and the members
were scattered. Many came from long distances, and food had to be
brought for the day’s sustenance. The early fathers tell us that the
people brought from their own homes hampers filled with cooked
fowls, and geese, etc., meat, loaves of bread, with skin-bottles of
wine, etc. The rich brought of their abundance, and the poor of their
poverty. These Sunday feasts acquired the ecclesiastical name,
agapai or “love-feasts” (from ἀγάπη, brotherly love, see Jud. 1:12),
because the richer brethren made them for the benefit of the poor.

It is easy to see how this would in time become a feast; and how,
though all partook of the common food, some would have too much,
and some too little; and, as it is written, some would be hungry, and
others drunken (1Co. 11:21).
This looks as though the feast or meal itself came to be spoken of
as “the Lord’s supper,” from the fact that each received an equal
portion, as on that night when the Lord Himself presided, and received
it as from Himself and not merely from one another.

But in process of time, a special ordinance was added at the close
of these feasts, at the end of the assembly, and at the end of the day.
to which the name, “the Lord’s supper,” was afterwards confined, Up
to the time of Chrysostom it followed the feast; but, as superstition
increased, it preceded the feast; but for 700 years after Christ they
accompanied each other: and the Lord’s supper was unknown as a
separate ordinance!

As late as a.d. 692 the close of the Lenten fast was celebrated by
an agapee, or feast, as the anniversary of the institution of the Lord’s
supper; and in England the day was called Maunday Thursday, from
the maunds, i.e., the baskets or hampers in which the provisions were
brought. No one but Royalty now keeps up this ancient custom. It fell
into desuetude from the superstition of “fasting communion;” which
had been brought in (though Chrysostom wished himself anathema if
he had been guilty of it!).

The “breaking of bread” therefore was used of the love-feast, and
never, until recent years, used of the Lord’s supper as a separate
ordinance.

The error has arisen from the misunderstanding of the Hebrew
idiom; and, from translating literally that which is used as a figurative
expression.

Rome has done exactly the same, though in another direction.
Rome forces the words “to break bread,” to prove its practice of
withholding the cup from the laity, or of communion in one kind! Rome
argues that as it only says “bread,” and wine is not mentioned;
therefore the “wafer” is sufficient!

Had Gentiles been acquainted with the Hebraism, neither malice
nor ignorance could have diverted the words from their simple and
only meaning.

5. To “Take the Sword” is used for rashly usurping magisterial power
instead of giving obedience and subjection to God
Mat. 26:52.
6. To “Open the Mouth’ is a Hebraism, used for speaking at length or
with great solemnity, liberty, or freedom
Jdg. 11:35-36. Job. 3:1; Job. 33:2. Psa. 78:2. Pro. 31:26. Eze. 24:27.
Dan. 10:16. Mat. 5:2, with 13:35. Luk. 1:64. Act. 8:35; Act. 10:34. 2Co.
6:11. Rev. 13:6.

So the opposite, “not to open the mouth,” is a Hebraism for
silence:- Psa. 38:13 (14); 39:9 (10). Pro. 24:7. Isa. 53:7. Act. 8:32.

7. To “Taste Wine’ is a Hebraism for drinking with others to
indulgence

Dan. 5:2.

So also to “drink wine.” Pro. 31:4.

8. “What to me and to thee?”

ti ἐμοὶ Kai Goi (ti emoi kai soi) which is rendered, “What have | to do
with thee?” means what is there between thee and me: i.e., what have
we in common.

2Sa. 16:10; 2Sa. 19:22. 1Ki. 17:18. 2Ki. 3:13. Mat. 8:29. Mar. 1:24.
Luk. 4:34. Joh. 2:4.

9. “The Son of Man”

Under Synecdoche we have considered the ordinary meaning of “Son
of Man”; but, with the definite article, the phrase appears to have a
special idiomatic usage of its own. No one was ever so called, but
Christ Himself. He first thus calls Himself in Joh. 1:51 (52). The
reference is to the first occurrence of the phrase in Psa. 8:1-9, where
the title is seen to involve universal dominion in the earth. Dominion
was given to the first man, Adam, and lost. It is to be restored in “the
Son of man,” “the second man,” “the Lord from Heaven.”

From Joh. 12:34 (cf. [Note: f. Compare (for Latin, confer).] 8:28),
the Jews rightly inferred that the title involved His Messiahship.
That the title has to do with dominion in the earth is clear from the
fact that it does not occur in the Epistles, and does not, therefore,
pertain to Christ in relation to the Church-the Body of which He is the
Head, though it occurs constantly in the Gospels, as well as in the
Apocalypse (but here only twice: 1:13, and 14:14).* [Note: See The
Divine Names and Titles, by the same author and publisher.]

10. “Turn to Ashes”
Psa. 20:3.-This was the Hebrew idiom for God’s acceptance of
offerings by fire: iie., He accepted them by causing fire to fall from
heaven and consume the sacrifice. No fire having its origin in this
world ever consumed the sacrifices which God accepted.

The sacrifices of the heathen were wholly independent of and
apart from God. He neither commanded them, nor accepted them. It is
even so with all worship now that is not the fruit of the Holy Spirit (who
is symbolized by burning fire). For the flesh to offer worship is the
offering of “strange fire.”

The fire which kindled the incense on the Golden Altar of worship
within the Holy Place was the same fire which had consumed the
sacrifice on the Brazen Altar. This tells us that there can be no incense
of prayer ascending to heaven that is not based on and does not
proceed from the blood of atonement.

That this fire from heaven was the essential part of God’s
acceptance of the offering may be seen from the fact that the fire of
God fell from heaven at the first (Lev. 9:24) (at the Tabernacle), and
again at the Temple (2Ch. 7:1), and that fire was kept continually
burning.

Whenever God accepted an offering away from the one place
which He had appointed the fire fell especially upon that occasion
only. See Gideon, Jdg. 6:21; Manoah, Jdg. 13:15-23; David, 1Ch.
21:26; and Elijah, 1Ki. 18:38.

This, therefore, is what is meant in Gen. 4:4, when” the Lord had
respect unto Abel and to his offering,” because it was what He had
ordered. But to Cain and his offering God “had not respect,” because it
was not what He had appointed. “The way of Cain” (Jud. 1:11) is
therefore human inventions in Divine worship!

This is how Abel “obtained witness that he was righteous.” This is
how “God testified of his gifts.” This is how Abel “being dead, yet
speaketh” (Heb. 11:4), but few hear his voice. Few understand the
great fact that God left nothing for man’s imagination when He made
known how He would be approached, and how He would be
worshipped. In the last chapter of Exodus (40.), we have fourteen
times “thou shalt” (2-15), in the directions given to Moses; and eight
times the significant words that all was done “as the Lord commanded
Moses.” Then Leviticus, the book of worship, opens with the words:
“And the Lord called unto Moses ... out of the Tabernacle of the
congregation (for Moses was not able to enter in, Exo. 40:35), saying
... If any man of you bring an offering unto the Lord, ye shall bring,”
etc.

Thus it is the Lord who dictates the particulars as to how He will be
approached. And, if He does not accept the sacrifice by turning it to
ashes, in vain would they worship Him.

It is the same to-day. The true worshippers, who worship God, do
so in spirit, and through that sacrifice which God has accepted, even
Christ our substitute, on whom the Divine judgment fell instead of on
His People. “BY HIM?” it is that we offer the sacrifice of praise to God
continually, that is the fruit of our lips giving thanks to His name (Heb.
13:15).

There is no other worship now which He accepts, and no other
worshippers whom the Father seeks to worship Him (Joh. 4:23).

11. “The Sons of God” (Sons of Elohim)
This is the Hebrew idiomatic expression for angels. In every place
where the expression occurs, angelic beings are to be understood. It
occurs in:

Gen. 6:2; Gen. 6:4. Job. 1:6; Job. 2:1.-Where it is 27227222?
(benai ha-Elohim), sons of the Elohim.

Job. 38:7.-Where it is without the article, “Sons of Elohim.”

Psa. 29:1; Psa. 89:6 (7).-Where it is 2??? 22232 (benai Eyleem),
sons of Eyleem.

Dan. 3:25.-Where it is singular, “A son (Chald., 2?) of God.”

Seven times in all, and in each case it means angels.* [Note: In
Hos. 1:10 (2:1), it is a different form 7??? 2? 2? (Benai El hai),
sons of the living God. The context leaves us in no doubt that this is
used of men, and not angeles, for it is put in contrast with 22?
(ammai), my people.]

It is clear, therefore, that angels are meant in Gen. 6:2; Gen. 6:4,
and their “sin” is there recorded. How it was committed we are not
told. In 2Pe. 2:4; 2Pe. 2:9 and Jud. 1:6, it is further described, and is
spoken of in connection with Noah. Is it not strange that in 1Pe.
3:18-19, where exactly the same connections occur (i.e., “Noah,” and
“chains,” and “prison”), they should be taken for men! Especially when
we recall the statement that “He maketh His angels spirits” (Psa.
104:4. Heb. 1:7), and that man is never spoken of as a “spirit.” He is
said to have a spirit, but not to be one.

In Gen. 6:4, the progeny of these fallen angels is called
Nepheleem: i.e., the fallen ones (from 220, naphal, to fall): and so
awful were the consequences that all flesh was corrupt, and Noah was
the only one who was not tainted.* [Note: The two words “generations”
are not the same in Gen. 6:9. The first is Toledoth, meaning the off
spring in succession, while the second is Dorothai, which has respect
to breed (Isa. 53:8).]

All the race, therefore, had to be destroyed. Noah’s sons’ wives
were tainted, and this may be the solution of the Ethnological problem
as to the different races. There were Nepheleem in the days of Moses
(Num. 13:33), because it appears from Gen. 6:4 that there was
another irruption “after that”: {6., after the days of Noah. It was for the
extermination of this awful breed of beings that Israel was used: and
yet there are Christians with an excess of (false) charity who deplore
the slaughter effected by Israel, forgetting the necessity for the
destruction.
It was to these fallen angels, “reserved” and “in prison” in Tartarus
(the utmost bounds of creation) that the triumph of Christ reached and
was proclaimed-an encouragement to those who now “suffer’-bidding
them too, to look forward to the “glory” which shall surely
follow.t [Note: See The Spirits in Prison, by the same author and
publisher.]

12. “Three days and three nights”
Jon. 1:17 (2:1), quoted in Mat. 12:40.

The expression, “three days and three nights,” is an idiom which
covers any parts of three days and three nights.

In 1Sa. 30:11 (12), it is said that a certain Egyptian had not eaten
bread and drunk water for “three days and three nights,” and yet it was
only three days since he fell sick (ver. 13), not four days.

In Est. 4:16, Esther says she and her maidens will fast “three days
and three nights,” and yet it was on “the third day” that Esther went in
to the king; not the fourth day, which it must have been if the
expression were literally understood.

It may seem absurd to Gentiles and to Westerns to use words in
such a manner, but that does not alter the fact.
Now the New Testament is for the most part Hebrew in idiom, but
Greek in /anguage. This is the simple explanation of the difference
between it and classical Greek. Moreover, there is reason to believe
that the First Gospel, as we have it, is a translation from a Hebrew
Original. This is one of the idioms. It is used in Jon. 1:17 (2:1), and by
our Lord in Mat. 12:40. And yet many Scriptures say that He should
rise, and did actually rise on “the third day.” This could not have been
if the expression were used in its literal sense. It must have been the
fourth day and not the “third.”

The fact is that the idiom covers any part of “three days and three
nights.” This method of Hebrew reckoning is as distinct from Gentile
reckoning, as their commencing the day at sunset and our
commencing it at midnight. All these different modes of reckoning are
peculiar to the respective peoples and languages and must be duly
taken into account.

The Lord’s words in Mat. 12:40 do not disagree with the Scripture
assertion that He should rise on “the third day.”

We have the expression “after three days” once (Mat. 27:63), and
“in three days” once (Joh. 2:19). But the common expression is “on
the third day,” and it occurs ten times. But if the expression be literal
and not an idiom, all these passages should say the fourth day! Paul
preached the resurrection on “the third day” according to the
Scriptures (1Co. 15:4), and this is the great Scriptural fact which we
cannot get away from.

Neither can we alter the fact that He rose on “the first day of the
week.”

Neither can we alter the history which records His death and burial
as taking place the day before the Sabbath. “The sabbath drew on”
(Luk. 23:54. Mat. 27:62); “the day before the sabbath” (Mar. 15:42);
and yet the two disciples going to Emmaus on the first day of the week
say, “This is the third day (not the fourth) since these things were
done” (Luk. 24:21).

From all this it is perfectly clear that nothing is to be gained by
forcing the one passage (Mat. 12:40) to have a literal meaning, in the
face of all these other passages which distinctly state that the Lord
died and was buried the day before the Sabbath and rose the day
after it, viz., on the first day of the week. These many statements are
literal and are history: but the one passage is an idiom which means
any part of “three days and three nights.” The one complete day and
night (24 hours) and the parts of two nights (36 hours in all) fully
satisfy both the idiom and the history.

It may be added that we have a similar usage in English. When a
person is sentenced to “three days’ imprisonment,” it may be late in
the evening of the first day when he arrives at the prison, but when the
doors open on the morning of the third day (not the fourth) he walks
out a free man. In other words, if a person is commited to prison for
three days-and he reaches it on Monday night-he leaves it the first
thing on Wednesday morning.

See The Coming Prince, by Dr. Robert Anderson, C.B.

On the other hand,

“Thou sayest” is not, as is generally supposed, an idiomatic
expression, conveying merely a simple affirmation or consent.
The fact is that εἶπας (ejpas) already means “thou saidst,” for the
pronoun is included in and forms part of the verb. If therefore the
pronoun σύ (su), thou, is used as well, it makes it very emphatic; and
indeed it places all the emphasis upon the pronoun (thou) instead of
on the verb (sayest) and causes the phrase to mean “thou (and not !)
hast said it,” or It is thou that madest the statement, or Thou hast said
it thyself. So clear is this emphasis that the words “and not I” are often
added.* [Note: Euripides and Sophocles both have examples. See
Wetstein. And compare Mat. 27:11. Mar. 15:2. Luk. 22:70; Luk. 23:3.
Joh. 18:37; (and Sept. Exo. 10:29).] So, too, σὺ λέγεις (su legeis),
thou thyself dost allege.

See, eg., Mat. 26:25 : “Then Judas, which betrayed him,
answered and said., Master, is it 1? He said unto him, Thou hast said it
thyself,” not I. Thou hast taken the fatal word “traitor” on thine own
lips.

So, in Mat. 26:63-64, the High Priest (before whom Jesus had held
his peace) asked, “Tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God.”
Jesus saith unto him, “Thou hast said it thyself,” not |. | neither affirm it
nor deny it. Thou hast spoken the word. But then not to leave the
matter in further suspense, Jesus says: “Only, | tell you, hereafter ye
will see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of Power, and coming
upon the clouds of heaven.”

It has been suggested that σὺ εἶπας (su eipas), thou saidst, should
be read in the text of Mat. 16:18, instead of σὺ εἶΠέτρος (su е! Petros),
thou art Peter.

But this is merely an invention to get out of a supposed difficulty. It
is based on the fact that in the most ancient MSS. there were no
divisions between the words, and hence it has been suggested that
the three words

ΣΥ ΕΙ ΠΕΤΡΟΣ (su εἰ Petros)
thou art Petros (i.e., Peter,-or a stone)
might originally have been written as one word,
ΣΥΕΙΠΣ (sueips),
and could be differently divided into two words, thus:-
ΣΥ ΕΙΠΣ (su eps, abbr. of ejpas)
thou saidst.
But against this are to be placed the following objections:
1. There are the Palrographical objections as to the suggested
abbreviations (a) of εἷρς for е/рез or eipas; (0) of ps for petros. The
only known ancient abbreviation of Petros or Peter is in one of the
Vienna Papyrus Fragments from Fay#lm, where it is written MET.
(pet.* [Note: See the Supplementum Nov. Test. Grrci, 1896, p. 67. By
Ed. Nestl', of Ulm] ), ie., the first three letters instead of the first and
the last.

2. There is the objection arising from the absence of definite ms.
authority, which makes the evidence conjectural rather than
documentary.

3. There is the objection arising from the actual context, which is
unquestioned; the two words “thou sayest” do not follow at all. Try it:
“And | say to thee, That thou saidst, and upon this rock | shall build My
Church.” It will be seen at once that the difficulty is increased instead
of being removed! Had the words been in the previous verse, the case
would be different; but, coming after the declaration in verse 17, and
especially after the formula, “And | also say to thee,” the words “thou
saidst’ seem to be quite impossible.

The best exposition of the passage is that which distinguishes
between the two words petros, a stone, a rolling stone, a stone for
throwing; and petra, a rock, or cliff, which cannot be moved.

Thou art a petros (a vacillating, unstable man, no one can build on
thee), but upon this petra (this rock which flesh and blood cannot
reveal, but which is revealed only by God Himself, upon Christ as “the
Son of God”), | shall build My Assembly.
And so it came to pass. For in Gal. 1:15-16 Paul says, “When it
pleased God ... to reveal His Son in me, that | might preach him
among the Gentiles; immediately | conferred not with flesh and blood”:
ie., | conferred not with those who know not all the truth involved in
preaching Christ as “the Son of God.” For all such are born of blood,
or of the will of the flesh, and they learn these truths only by Divine
revelation. We have the same word “reveal” in Mat. 16:17 (as we have
also “flesh and blood”) and Gal. 1:16, which is most significant. Paul
was the wise master-builder. Paul was the first to preach Christ as “the
Son of God,” as declared in Act. 9:20. This therefore was the petra-the
rock foundation of the Church of the living God; and no mere petros or
unstable man. Thus we have the contrast between the two, the petros
and the petra, the stone and the ROCK.

ix. Idioms arising from other Figures of Speech
Certain idiomatic phrases arise out of other Figures of Speech, and
they will be found, as scattered examples, throughout this work.

For example, Pleonasm gives rise to a few; but the following are
important, from Anthropopatheia. They will be found under that figure:

“To hide from one’s eyes.
To swear by one’s soul.
To hide one’s face.

To hide one’s eyes.

To spare with the eyes.
To stretch forth the hand.
To put forth the hand.

To shake the hand.

To make the hand heavy.
To make the hand light.
To withdraw the hand.

To turn the hand upon.
To lift up the hand.

To spread forth the hand.
To turn the hand back.
To smite or clap the hands.
To open the hand,”

etc. etc.

Synecdoche and Metonymy also give rise to the peculiar usage of
certain words in certain phrases: and these Figures must be referred
to, as it is unnecessary to repeat them here.

x. Changes of Usage of Words, in the Greek Language
These may be added as another class: where the meanings of words
change in the course of centuries, even among the same people.

The Greek of the New Testament is, as we have seen, full of the
idioms of another language (Hebrew). But there is more than this.
Greek is a language which was spoken and used by different races
under different conditions at different times and in different countries.

In the interpretation of Scripture, we have to take into account the
fact that Greek was a living language, and was consequently marked
by constant gradual changes. The New Testament Greek is four
centuries later than Attic Greek. It is, therefore, impossible for us to
depend solely on Attic Greek for its understanding and meaning.

Examples could be given of these changes:-

ζωοτπεῖν (z66poiein) which meant in classical Greek to produce
live offspring, had changed to preserve alive or make alive, to quicken.

πάροικος (paroikos) which meant neighbour, had come to mean
Sojourner.

πράκτωρ. (praktér) which meant tax-gather, had come to mean
Jjailor (Mat. 5:25. Luk. 12:58). We learn this from the use of the word in
the recently discovered Раруп.

On the other hand, Modern Greek exhibits similar changes of New
Testament Greek: e.g.,

Χρόνος which meant time, is used to-day in Greece of a year.

καιρός which meant season, is to-day in Greece used of weather.
It is clear therefore that any correct interpretation of New
Testament Greek must take into account, not only particular usages,
but also changes of usage. This properly comes under /diom, and
forms one of its most interesting and important branches. Biblical
Greek occupies an unique position, and has never yet secured the
attention and study which it demands. It is a neglected study, and is
destitute alike of Lexicon and Grammar.* [Note: The late Professor
Hatch, of Oxford, has shown the importance of this branch of Biblical
study, and laid the foundations for it in his Essays in Biblical Greek.
Clarendon Press, 1889.]

We can, here, give only a few examples of the idiomatic usage of
certain important Greek words in the New Testament, which had been
changed from their original classical meaning, and were used in a
different Biblical sense. It is clear that many words which had been
used by heathens could not possibly be brought into use in the sphere
of spiritual and Divine truths without considerable modifications, and,
in some cases, important changes.

The same phenomenon is encountered to-day, wherever the
attempt is made to translate the Bible into a heathen language.

The knowledge of these changes as they affect the more important
theological words is absolutely necessary to the correct interpretation
of the New Testament Scriptures.

Dr. Hatch gives (among others) the following instructive
examples:-

ἀγγαρεύειν (angareuein). In classical Greek it was used with strict
reference to the Persian system of mounted couriers (Herod. 8. 98.
Xen. Cyr. 8. 6, 17).

But the customs of other countries changed the meaning to the
forced transport of military baggage (Jos. Ant. 13. 2, 3. Epictetus,
Diss. 4. 1, 79).

In the New Testament, therefore, it is used of being compelled to
carry the load or baggage of another person. See Mat. 5:41; Mat.
27:32. Mar. 15:31. Compare Luk. 3:14.

ἀναγινώσκειν (anaginéskein) meant originally to persuade; then, to
know well, to gather exact knowledge of, hence to read.

But later usage extended the reading to reading aloud with
comments so as to persuade others. (See Epictetus, Diss. 3. 23, 20
and 1. 10, 8).

So in the New Testament (Mat. 24:15. Mar. 13:14), “Let him that
readeth” means let him who reads and comments on these words in
the assembly take care to understand them.

It explains also 1Ti. 4:13.

atrootopatiZelv (apostomatizein). Its classical use was to dictate to
a pupil what he was to learn by heart and afterwards recite.

But its later use was widened to the examination by questioning as
to what had been already taught (Pollux 2. 102).

Hence in Luk. 11:53, where it is rendered “provoke him to speak,”
it means they began to put questions to Him as if they were
questioning a pupil.

ἀρετή (aretee) in classical Greek meant excellence of any kind,
especially of manly qualities. Hence, Latin, vir-tus, manhood, valour,
prowess, skill.

In the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] itis used
for the translation of 222 (héd), glory. Hab. 3:3. Zec. 6:13.

Also of 2??? (thillah), praise. Isa. 42:8; Isa. 42:12; Isa. 43:21;
Isa. 63:7.
In the New Testament, therefore, it must have one of these two
senses. See Php. 4:8 (virtue). 1Pe. 2:9 (praises). 2Pe. 1:3 (virtue); 1:5
(virtue).

γλωσσόκομον (glé6ssokomon) was the case in which the tongues
(γλῶσσαι) of musical instruments were kept (fongue-case).

All trace of this vanishes in later Greek, and it was used of any
chest, especially of what we should call the strong-box, or coffer.
In the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] itis used
in 2Ch. 24:8; 2Ch. 24:10-11. See 2Ki. 12:9, etc., where we have
κιβωτός (kib6tos), of what we should call the money-box.

Hence its meaning and use in Joh. 12:6; Joh. 13:29.

δεισιδαΐµων (deisidaim6n) and δεισιδαιµονία (deisidaimonia) were
used of religion or religiousness in a good sense.

But in later Greek they were used in a bad sense; and this is the
sense in Act. 17:22; Act. 25:19.

διάβολος (diabolos) was used of slanderous or malicious
accusation.

In the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] itis used
with or without the article of a single person, like the Heb. 222,
Satan; and 22, Tsar. See 1Ch. 21:1. Est. 7:4; Est. 8:1. Psa. 109:6
(LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] , 109:6). (See
Num. 22:22, where opposition is the meaning without implying
accusation of any kind.)

In the New Testament it is used as a proper name, except in 1Ti.
3:11. 2Ti. 3:3. Tit. 2:3, where it is used as an adjective, and in its
ordinary sense of malicious accuser.

διαθήκη (diatheekee). In classical Greek it had two meanings: (1) a
last will or testament, and (2) very rarely, of a covenant.

In the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] itis used
280 times, and always of a covenant. This is its only use in the New
Testament, and though it is translated “testament” several times, it
should always be covenant. For Heb. 9:16-17, see under Ellipsis.

Dr. Hatch observes that “the attempt to give it in certain passages
its classical meaning of ‘testament’ is not only at variance with its use
in Hellenistic Greek, but is probably also the survival of a mistake: in
ignorance of the philology of later and vulgar Latin, it was formerly
supposed that ‘testamentum,’ by which the word is rendered in the
early Latin versions as well as in the Vulgate, meant ‘testament’ or
‘will,’ whereas in fact it meant also, if not exclusively, ‘covenant.’ ”

θρησκεία (threeskeia) was used (in the pl. [Note: |. The Plural
Number.] ) by Herodotus (2. 37) of external ceremonies of the
Egyptian priests.

In Biblical Greek it is not used of these, but is transferred to any
similar ceremonial observances and to these only: not of Christianity,
but of that which has its origin in feelings or experiences, or of piety.
This is its meaning in Act. 26:5 (“religion”). Col. 2:18 (“worshipping”).
Jam. 1:26-27 (“religion”).

µυστήριον (musteerion) always rendered or rather transliterated
“mystery”; but meaning a secret. See a pamphlet on The Mystery, by
the same author and publisher.

οἰκονόμος was used of managing a household, hence manager.

But in later Greek it was specially used of a slave who gave the
other slaves their rations. So Luk. 12:42. Gal. 4:2. Also of a land-
steward, or as we should say an “agent.” Luk. 16:1; Luk. 16:3; Luk.
16:8. Rom. 16:23.

πειράζειν (peirazein) usually translated to tempt: and πειρασμός
(peirasmos), temptation.

The classical use of the verb was to make proof or trial of (Homer,
Od. 16. 319; 23. 114; 9. 281). To make an attempt (Polyb. Fr. hist. 60).

In the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] the
meaning was extended to the mode of trial: viz., by affliction or
disaster. Hence “trial” came to mean trouble: as being that which most
effectually tries anyone.
In the New Testament there are several passages where this
sense of tribulation, trouble, and even chastisement and persecution
are the more suitable renderings:-

Luk. 8:13 (Mat. 13:21. Mar. 4:17).
Mat. 6:13 (Luk. 11:4) Bring us not into trial, but deliver us from him, or
that, which does the mischief.
Mat. 4:1 (Mar. 1:13. Luk. 4:2) to be tried or afflicted by the devil
(hence Heb. 4:15).

Act. 20:19 -“Perils”: i.e., hardships through the plots and conspiracies
of the Jews (2Co. 11:24; 2Co. 11:26). Heb. 2:18. 1Pe. 1:6; 1Pe. 4:12.
Rev. 3:10.

πονηρός (poneeros) is defined by Aristotle as being only weak,
having a good-will, and therefore only “half-wicked,” because what is
done is not done from malice.

On the contrary in the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325
b.c.).] , the meaning seems to point to the activity of mischief: of wild
beasts (Gen. 37:20. Eze. 14:15): of the plagues of Egypt (Deu. 7:15):
of blood-shedding (Isa. 59:7): of violence and mischief (Isa. 35:9; Isa.
10:1).

So in the New’ Testament, active harmfulness and
mischievousness are the prevailing meaning. Mat. 5:11; Mat. 5:39;
Mat. 6:13; Mat. 22:18 (Mar. 12:15. Luk. 20:23). Mat. 12:45 (Luk.
11:26).

In some of the apocryphal books, the sense seems to be that of
grudging (Sir. 14:4-5; Sir. 31:23). See Pro. 23:6. Deu. 28:56. In the
New Testament this seems to be the sense in Mat. 6:19-24; Mat. 7:11
(Luk. 11:13); Mat. 20:15.

παράκλητος (parakleetos) meant in classical Greek merely called
to one’s aid, assisting, especially in a court of justice. Hence a legal
adviser or helper.

But this falls short of the meaning it afterwards obtained: viz., not
only of helping another to do a thing, but to help him by doing it for
him. № is used only in John of the Holy Spirit's help (by Christ) in
14:16, 26; 15:26; 16:7. And of Christ’s help (by the Holy Spirit) in 1Jn.
2:1.

Trioti¢ (pistis), faith. In classical Greek, it meant, psychologically,
conviction: rhetorically, proof which brings about the conviction; and
morally, good-faith or mutual trust.

In Biblical Greek, there is added a fourth usage, which is,
theologically, an ideal virtue: viz., a full assurance (Rom. 4:20-21).
And, since it believes that, what God has said He will surely bring to
pass, therefore, its objects are also objects of hope as well as faith
(Heb. 11:1).

συκοφαντεῖν (sukophantein). This word meant originally an
informer, and was used of one who gave information against persons
who exported figs from Attica. Literally, a fig-shewer. Hence a
informer; especially with the view of extorting money, a black-mailer
(Xenophon, Mem. 2. 9, 4-6).

Hence in Biblical Greek it comes to have a wider range of
meaning, and is used for Hebrew words which mean {ο oppress; and
thus passed from black-mailing the rich, to the oppression of the poor
to extort money, etc.

So Gen. 43:18. (See Gen. 26:20. Lev. 6:2. Deu. 24:14. Job. 10:3;
Job. 35:9. Psa. 72:4; Psa. 119:122; Psa. 119:134. Pro. 14:31; Pro.
22:16; Pro. 28:3; Pro. 28:16. Ecc. 4:1; Ecc. 5:7; Ecc. 7:8. Eze. 22:12;
Eze. 22:29. Jer. 6:6.)

In the New Testament it is used only in Luk. 3:14; Luk. 19:8.

The distinction between the following words in classical and
Septuagint and New Testament Greek is not observed in the
Translations:-

πένης (penees) is poor, as opposed to rich: one who has to
work for his living.

TITWXOG (ptéchos) is destitute, and in want: a pauper, or
beggar.
πραῦς (praus) is easy-tempered, as opposed to ὀργίλος
(orgilos), passionate; and πικρός (pikros), bitter or sour.
ταπεινός (tapeinos) is dejected as well as lowly.
In the LXX [Note: XX The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] these
words are used interchangeably to represent the same Hebrew words,
and do not denote inferiority in morals, but only in outward condition:
viz., the peasantry (fellahin), who lived quiet, peaceful lives, and were
the victims of lawless and powerful oppressors, who plundered and ill-
treated them.

See Psa. 10:9; Psa. 12:5 (6); 34:6; 35:10; 37:14; 40:17 (18); 72:4,
13; 76:9 (10); 147:6.

This is the sense underlying these words in the New Testament.

Professor Deissmann* [Note: Bibelstudien, Marburg, 1895, and
Neue Bibelstudieu, 1897.] has recently illustrated many New
Testament idiomatic usages and expressions from the collections of
papyri at Berlin and Vienna. They were recently discovered in Egypt,
and are of the age of the Ptolemies. They consist of petitions, letters,
receipts, accounts, divorces, bribes, etc. His contention is that these
contain marks, not of what is called “New Testament Greek,” but of the
vernacular usage of words at that time: e.g., he shows that νεόφυτος
(neophytos) novice (1Ti. 3:6) is used in the papyri of newly planted
palm trees.

ἀθέτησις (atheteesis), disanulling (Heb. 7:18; Heb. 9:26) is used as
a technical legal expression, and is often found with ἀκύρωσις
(akurésis) a depriving of authority, and in Antithesis to βεβαίωσις
(bebaidésis), a confirming, or establishing.

аматёртто) (апаретрб), to send up (Luk. 23:7; Luk. 23:11; Luk.
23:15. Act. 25:21) is used of sending up to a superior authority.

ἀπέχω (apech6é), to have in full (Mat. 6:2; Mat. 6:5; Mat. 6:16. Luk.
6:24) is used in two Еау т receipts dated respectively: Dec. 29th, 44
a.d., and Sept. [Note: ept. The Septuagint Version.] 6th, 57 a.d., of
giving a discharge for an account. This gives an ironical turn to these
passages. See also Php. 4:18.

ἐπίσκοποι (episcopoi), overseers (A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , bishops), is used
of civil functionaries in Rhodes, in the first centuries, both b.c. and
a.d.; and also of an official in the temple of Apollo.

πρεσβύτεροι (presbyteroi), elders, is used of civil functionaries in
Egypt, and also of temple officials, in the Fay#m papyri.

σφραγίζω (sphragiz6), to seal, is used of certifying as correct. This
may explain Rom. 15:28. Joh. 3:33. 2Co. 1:22. Eph. 1:13; Eph. 4:30.

ἄμετανοητος (ametanoeetos), impenitent (Rom. 2:5) occurs in a
papyrus record of a sale, denoting that there was to be no change in
it.

βιάζοµαι (biazomai), suffer violence (Mat. 11:12), is usually taken
as passive, but a Lycian inscription uses it as a deponent: i.e., the
kingdom of God presses itself on the notice of men.

δοκίµιον (dokimion), the trying (1Pe. 1:7). This usage would render
Jam. 1:3, “What is genuine in your faith.”

ἀρετή (aretee), 1Pe. 2:9, “That ye should show forth the praises of
him who hath called you.” And 2Pe. 1:3, “Him that hath called us to
glory and virtue.”

Inscriptions are quoted from the Egyptian papyri, which show that
ἀρετή was used at that time in the sense of a display of power. And
this is exactly what it means in the above passages; for God’s
wondrous power is displayed and manifested forth in His calling of His
People. See Eph. 1:18-19. (See above, page 851).

xi. Changes of Usage of Words in the English Language
It is most important that these should be carefully noticed: otherwise
many words and expressions in the English of the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] cannot
be understood.
It is most instructive to observe the evidence afforded by many of
these changes as to the constant effect of fallen human nature; which,
in its use of words, is constantly lowering and degrading their
meaning:

“All to brake” (Jdg. 9:53). This is an old Anglo-Saxon word
tobrecan, from which the prefix “to” has got separated. It means
altogether or completely smashed. (See Spenser’s Faerie Queene: 4.
7. 66; Milton’s Comus 379, “all to ruffi’d.” So that “all to” meant
“altogether’).

“And if’ (Mat. 24:48. 1Co. 7:11). “But and if’: i.e., but even if.

“A work” (2Ch. 2:18).

“A fishing” (Joh. 21:3). The “a” is a softening down of the Anglo-
Saxon “on”: “on sleep” (Act. 13:36).

“Away with” (Isa. 1:13) meant fo tolerate.

“By and by” (Luk. 21:19) meant immediately.

“Come at” (Num. 6:6) meant to come near, as in R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.]
“Company with” (1Co. 5:9. Compare v. 11) meant to have
company with, as in Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] : 18., to
associate with.

“Do to wit’ (2Co. 8:1) meant make to know (see “Wit” below): to
certify.

“Fetched a compass’ (2Ki. 3:9) meant to make a circuit, or round-
about course (as in Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ). So Act.
28:13.

“For to do” (Deu. 4:1) Here, the “for” was used in the sense of “in
order that”. i.e., that ye may do.

“Full well” (Mar. 7:9): i.e., with full knowledge.

“Go to” (Jam. 4:13) meant come now.

“On sleep” (Act. 13:36). The “on” has now become softened in
modern usage to “a”-asleep.

“Presently” (1Sa. 2:16. Pro. 12:16. Mat. 21:19; Mat. 26:53. Php.
2:23) meant immediately.

“Prevent” (Psa. 59:10 (11); Psa. 79:8; Psa. 88:13 (14); Psa.
119:148. 1Th. 4:15) meant to go or come before, precede. See under
Ellipsis, Psa. 12:6 (7).

“Strike hands” (Job. 17:3) meant to conclude a bargain by
shaking hands.

“Trow’ (Luk. 17:9) meant to suppose or imagine (A.S., treowian, to
believe).

“Wit” or “to wit” (Gen. 24:21. Exo. 2:4) meant to know. Hence it
came to mean any special cleverness (as a noun), and then humour.
So “wof’ meant to know (Act. 3:17. Rom. 11:2, etc.), and “witty” (Pro.
8:12) meant simply skilful or clever, and “wittingly’ (Gen. 48:14)
knowingly, skilfully.

“Wist” (Mar. 14:40) is the past tense of wit, knew. “Unwittingly’
(Jos. 20:3) meant unknowingly. R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] margin, through error.

“Whit” (1Sa. 3:18. 2Co. 11:5). This is the Anglo-Saxon, wiht, a
person or thing; hence “not a whit’ meant not at all.

“Very” (Gen. 27:21. Pro. 17:9. Joh. 7:26; Joh. 8:4) meant true,
real.

So there are certain words which have changed their meaning in
the course of years:-

“Advisement” (1Ch. 12:19) meant deliberation: from the Latin ad,
to, and visum, seemed good).

“Adventure” (Deu. 28:56. Act. 19:31) meant to venture to go.

“Artillery” (198. 20:40). This meant (from the Low Latin artillaria,
any warlike weapons, hence) bows and arrows. To-day we confine the
word to quite another class of weapon.

“Assay” (Job. 4:2) meant to attempt, to try.

“Beeves” (Num. 31:33, etc.) was the plural of “beef”: the Norman-
French for ox.

“Bonnet” (Exo. 28:40) was at one time used of a man’s
headdress: and is still so used in Scotland.

“Brigandine” (Jer. 46:4; Jer. 51:3) was a coat of mail. Now we use
the word brigand in a special sense.

“Carriages” (Act. 21:15). From the three voices of the Greek Verb
we have Carriage (passive: i.e., that which | carry): Carry (middle: i.e.,
how | carry myself); Carriage (active: i.e., that which carries me). The
former of these uses of the word (from the Passive) is now obsolete.
“Clouted” (Jos. 9:5) meant patched. And “Clouts” (Jer. 38:11-12).

“To ear” (1Sa. 8:12. Isa. 30:24) meant to plough (from Anglo-
Saxon erian, to plough). So the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] now renders it; in 1Sa. 8:12, spelling it “plow,” but in Isa. 30:24,
“till.” Compare Gen. 45:6, “Neither earing nor harvest.” Exo. 34:21.
Deu. 21:4.

“Earing” (Gen. 45:6. Exo. 34:21) meant, as in R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] , plowing.

“Eared” (Deu. 21:4) meant ploughed.

“Earnest” (2Co. 1:22. Eph. 1:14) meant a pledge; but differing
from an ordinary pledge in this, that while a pledge might be of a
different kind, the earnest was a pledge of the same kind.

“Fast” (Rth. 2:8) was used in the sense of close, near.

“Fat” (Joe. 2:24. Mar. 12:1) was used for a Vat, from Anglo-Saxon
faet, which was pronounced vat.

“Goodman” (Mat. 20:11) meant householder (as in Π.Ν. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ).
“Libertines” (Act. 6:9), a class of freedmen amonst the Romans.

“Lusty” (Jdg. 3:29) meant merely vigorous; and Lust meant simply
pleasure or desire generally, as Exo. 15:9. Deu. 12:15, etc. 2Ti. 4:3 :
Joh. 8:44. 1Jn. 2:16. Now we use it of one special form of desire.

“Mote” (Mat. 7:3) is the Anglo-Saxon mot, i.e., a particle of dust.

“Naughty” (Pro. 6:12; Pro. 17:4. Jer. 24:2) meant worth naught,
worthless. Now we use it of any evil, and sometimes of some special
form.

“Nephew” (Jdg. 12:14. Job. 18:19) meant a grandson. See Isa.
14:22. 1Ti. 5:4 from the Latin nepos.

“Occupy” (Luk. 19:13) meant fo carry on business, to trade, from
the Latin occupare, to lay hold of. Hence our word “occupation.”

“Outgoings,” Jos. 17:9. Psa. 65:8 (9), meant utmost limits.

“Penny” (Mat. 20:2) was used of any piece of money. Even silver
money used to be so called. Hence the phrase: “to turn a penny.” In
Icelandic, peningr means cattle, as well as money. Now it is limited to
a particular coin, which we represent by “d” (the initial of denarius). “A
penny a day” was the idiom for the ordinary wage for such labour. In
Luk. 10:35, the “two pence” equalled two days’ wages or double pay.

“Publican” (Mat. 9:10, etc., etc.) was the Latin Publicanus, a tax-
collector. Now the usage is changed to a Vintner.

“Quick” (Lev. 13:10; Lev. 13:24. Num. 16:30. Psa. 55:15; Psa.
124:3. Isa. 11:3. Act. 10:42. 2Ti. 4:1. Heb. 4:12. 1Pe. 4:5) is the Anglo-
Saxon cwic, alive, as opposite to dead. Now we use it in the sense of
lively as opposite to sluggish. So

“Quicken” means to make alive (Psa. 71:20; Psa. 80:18; Psa.
119:25; Psa. 119:37; Psa. 119:40; Psa. 119:88; Psa. 119:107; Psa.
119:149; Psa. 119:154; Psa. 119:156; Psa. 119:159; Psa. 143:11.
Rom. 13:11).

“Quickened,” made alive (Psa. 119:50; Psa. 119:93. 1Co. 15:36.
Eph. 2:1; Eph. 2:5. 1Pe. 3:18.

“Quickeneth,” maketh alive (Joh. 5:21; Joh. 6:63. Rom. 4:17. 2Co.
3:6 (тагд. [Note: arg. Margin.] ). 1Ti. 6:13.

“Quickening,” making alive (1Co. 15:45).

“Silly” (Job. 5:2. Hos. 7:11. 2Ti. 3:6) meant, originally, as Anglo-
Saxon, saelig, timely, then, happy, and innocent. But now, because a
person who acts thus is supposed by the world to be foolish, so it has
come to be used. The same is the case with the word

“Simple,” which meant, originally, without guile, open, artless. But
now, because a person who acts thus, is considered devoid of all
sense, it has come to mean foolish. In the Bible the word is used in its
original sense, as the usage had not then changed. See Psa. 19:7 (8);
119:6; 119:130. Pro. 1:4; Pro. 1:22; Pro. 1:32; Pro. 7:7; Pro. 8:5; Pro.
9:4; Pro. 9:13; Pro. 14:15; Pro. 14:18; Pro. 21:11; Pro. 22:3. Eze.
45:20. Rom. 16:18-19.
“Simplicity” is used in the corresponding sense: 2Sa. 15:1. Pro.
1:22. Rom. 12:8. 2Co. 1:12; 2Co. 11:3.

“Sottish” (Jer. 4:22) meant stupid, dull, heavy. Now, because а
person is made so by drink, its use is limited to stupidity thus induced.

“Vagabond” (Gen. 4:12; Gen. 4:14. Act. 19:13. Psa. 109:10)
meant originally, a wanderer, from Latin vagari, to wander. But,
because those who thus wander, are generally compelled to do so on
account of their worthless character, so the word came to be limited to
this special sense.

2. As to Persons
Prosopopeeia; or, Personification
Things represented as Persons

Pros’-6-po-poe’-i-a (i.€., pros’-0-po-pe'-ya). Greek, προσωποποῄα,
from πρόσωπον (prosopon), face or person, and ποιεῖν (poiein), to
make.

A figure by which things are represented or spoken of as persons;
or, by which we attribute intelligence, by words or actions, to inanimate
objects or abstract ideas.

The figure is employed when the absent are spoken of (or to) as
present; when the dead are spoken of as alive; or when anything (e.g.,
a country) is addressed as a person.

Personification is the English name for the figure.

The Latins called it PERSONIFICATIO, or PERSON. FICTIO, the
making or feigning of a person. Also CONFORMATIO, a conforming or
fashioning, delineation, conception.

The figure of Personification may be divided into the following six
classes or groups:-

|. The members of the Human body.

П. Animals.

Ill. The products of the earth.
IV. Inanimate things.

V. Kingdoms, countries, and states.

VI. Human actions, etc., attributed to things, etc.

i. The members of the human body

Gen. 31:35.-Heb., Let not the eyes of my lord kindle with anger.

So Gen 45:5 margin: and compare Isa. 3:8.
Gen. 48:14.-“He made his hands to understand” (222, sikkeyl),
skilful.
Deu. 13:8.-“Neither shall thine eye pity him.”
1Ki. 20:6.-“Whatscever is pleasant (or desirable, marg. [Note: arg.
Margin.] ) in thine eyes”: i.e., pleases thine eyes. So Eze. 24:16 (see
under Periphrasis and Metonymy), 21 (see Paronomasia). 1Jn. 2:16.
Job. 29:11.-“When the ear heard me, then it blessed me and when
the eye saw me, it gave witness to me.” How beautiful is this
Prosopopria. № is more than putting the “eye,” by Metonomy, for any
one who used the eye and saw. It is the actual personification of the
eye; and, therefore, much more expressive.
Job. 31:7.-‘If ... mine heart walked after mine eyes,” i.e., if | covet that
which | have seen. Compare 1Jn. 2:16.
Psa. 35:10.-“All my bones shall say, Lord, who is like unto thee,” etc.

When it is written “All my bones,” it is the figure Synecdoche, by
which a part or some of the members are put for the whole being or
person. When it is written “shall say,” that is Prosopopria, because
they are represented as speaking.

This is a Psalm of David: and it is therefore true of David’s Son,
and David’s Lord, as well as of David himself.

David could say that he, with all his members and powers, used
these words and said, “Jehovah! Who is like unto thee,” etc.

The Lord Jesus could use them in like manner of Himself. But
there is a further application to Christ mystical: a truth not then
revealed. All the members of Christ's body now say exactly the same
thing. In Psa. 139:16 we see the formation of those members (1Co.
12:1-31). We see how they are placed in the Body.

They are “vexed.” Psa. 6:2 (3).

They are “sundered” (Psa. 22:14 (15), margin), but never “broken”
(Psa. 34:20 (21). Exo. 12:46): therefore Christ's literal bones were not
to he broken (Joh. 19:33; Joh. 19:37).
Their “hearts” are broken, as His was (Psa. 69:20). See Psa. 34:18
(19), (and cf. [Note: f. Compare (for Latin, confer).] verse 20), but they
themselves, never!

They all are “poor and needy,” and they all say one thing. They all
own Jesus as “the Lord”; and all confess that there is none like Him.
Sometimes they ask the question (Psa. 89:6 (7); 71:19. Exo. 15:11),
and sometimes they answer it (Deu. 33:26-27. 1Sa. 2:2).

They thus confess Him as beyond compare, because He delivers
the “poor and needy” from the strong spoiler.

From the Law which was too strong (Gal. 3:10; Gal. 3:13).

From Sin which is too strong (Rom. 7:23-24; Rom. 5:21).

From the World which is too strong (Joh. 16:33), and

From Death (2Co. 1:10. 2Ti. 1:10. Hos. 13:14).

Psa. 68:31 (32).-“Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.”
Here, Ethiopia is first put, by Metonymy (of subject), for the inhabitants
who lift up their hands. Otherwise, it is a Prosopopoeia, for Ethiopia
has no hands! This will be fulfilled in the day of Psa. 72:15.
Psa. 73:9.-“Their tongue walketh through the earth.” It is the wicked
who walk through the earth, using their tongues against God.

Psa. 103:1.-“All that is within me, bless his holy name.” See also
Synecdoche and Idiom.

Psa. 119:82.-“Mine eyes fail for thy word”: ie., mine eyes are
consumed in looking for the fulfilment of Thy Word: ie. (by
Synecdoche) | am consumed. So verse 123.

Psa. 137:5 (6).-“If | forget thee, О Jerusalem, let my right hand forget.”
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] supply “her
cunning” in italics. This is usually treated as an Ellipsis, but by some
85 a Prosopopoeia. But it is neither. When the correct reading of the
Hebrew is understood, we have here a beautiful Paronomasia (q.v.
[Note: Which see-] ), and the reading is “let me forget my right hand.”
Psa. 145:15.-“The eyes of all wait (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ‚ look
unto) thee.”

Pro. 10:32.-“The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom.”

Isa. 13:18.-“Their eye shall not spare children.”

Eze. 20:7.-“Cast ye away every man the abominations of his eyes.”
See under Enallage.
Mat. 6:3.-“Let not thy left hand know,” etc. See Paroemia.
2Ре. 2:14.-“Having eyes full of an adulteress.” (See A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
margin.)
1Со. 12:15-16.-“If the foot shall say, Because | am not the hand, | am
not of the body; Is it therefore not of the body? And if the ear shall say,
Because | am not the eye, | am not of the body; Is it therefore not of
the body?”
ii. Animals

Gen. 9:5.-“At the hand of every beast will | require it.” Beasts are thus
spoken of as intelligent and responsible. How much more man!
Job. 12:7.-“Ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee: and the
fowls of the air, they shall tell thee.” Compare verses 8, 11, etc.
Job. 41:29 (21).-“He (leviathan) laugheth at the shaking of a spear.
Joe. 1:6.-“A nation is come up upon my land ... whose teeth are the
teeth of a lion, and he hath the cheek teeth of a great lion.” So verse
4.

Animals are represented as doing what the hostile nation had
done.
See further illustrations under Allegory.
iii. The products of the earth

Lev. 19:23.-“Ye shall count the fruit thereof as uncircumcised.” For
three years the fruit of a young tree was not to be eaten, but in the
fourth year it “shall be holiness of praises to Jehovah”: i.e., it shall be
counted holy to the great praise and glory of Jehovah. See Heterosis.
In the fifth year it might be eaten.
Joe. 1:10.-“The land mourneth-the oil languisheth.” So Isa. 16:8. Nah.
114.
Hab. 3:17 (margin).-“The labour of the olive shall lie.” So Hos. 9:2.
iv. Inanimate things

Gen. 4:10.-“The voice of thy brother’s blood crieth unto me from the
ground.” See under Heterosis.

So in verse 11. The earth is represented as opening her mouth to
receive the blood of Abel.
Gen. 42:9; Gen. 42:12.-“The nakedness of the land.”
Gen. 47:19.-Desolation is spoken of as the death of the land.
Exo. 19:18.-“Mount Sinai quaked as though with fear.”
Lev. 18:25; Lev. 18:28.-“The land itself vomiteth out her inhabitants.”
“It spued out the nations.”
Deu. 32:42.-Arrows are said to be made drunk; and the sword is said
to devour. Compare Isa. 34:5-6. Jer. 46:10.

The four lines are as follows:-

а | will make mine arrows drunk with blood,
Ь And my sword shall devour flesh;
а drunk with the blood of the slain and of the captives,
b from the hairy head of the enemy (R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] marg [Note: arg Margin.] ).

Here a refers to the arrows mentioned in a: while Ь refers to the
work of the sword mentioned in b. See under Parallelism.
Jos. 24:27.-“This stone shall be a witness unto us; for it hath heard all
the words of the Lord which he spake unto us.”
Jdg. 5:20.-“The stars in their courses fought against Sisera.” See
under Homoeopropheron.
2Ki. 3:19.-Here, the figure is translated:-“And shall mar every good
piece of land with stones” The Heb. is grieve. (See A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] marg.
[Note: arg. Margin.] )
Job. 3:9.-Let the night “look for light, but have [or see] none; neither
let it see the dawning of the day.” Heb., the eyelids of the morning.
(See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] text). So Job. 41:18 (10).
Job. 28:22.-“Destruction and death say, We have heard of the fame
thereof with our ears.”

Job. 31:38.-“If my land cry against me, or that the furrows likewise
thereof weep.” (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] , complain. Marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ,
weep).

Job. 38:7.-“When the morning stays sang together, and all the sons of
God (i.e., the angels) shouted for joy.” The stars are also called on to
praise God in Psa. 148:3.

Psa. 19:1 (2).-“The heavens declare the glory of God.”* [Note: See on
the whole of this wondrous Psalm, The Witness of the Stars, by the
same author and publisher. Pages 1-6.]

Psa. 77:16 (17).-“The waters saw thee, О God, the waters saw thee;
they were afraid: the depths also were troubled.” (See under
Epizeuxis). Thus is the history of Exo. 14:1-31, powerfully and
beautifully expressed.

Psa. 96:11-12; Psa. 98:7-8 are beautiful examples of Prosopopoeia. It
is a figure, of speech: but it emphasises the rejoicing of the whole
creation of God, when Christ shall return to remove its curse, and
cause its groanings to cease.

Psa. 103:16.-“The place thereof shall know it no more.” Compare Job.
7:10; Job. 8:18, ete.

Psa. 104:19.-“The sun knoweth his going down.” So

Son. 1:6.-“The sun hath looked upon me.”

Isa. 3:26.-“Her gates shall lament and mourn”: i.e., after the eastern
custom. See Job. 1:20; Job. 2:13.

Isa. 5:14.-“Sheol hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without
measure”: and this, to show the great mortality of that day.

Isa. 14:8.-“The fir-trees rejoice at thee.”
Isa. 14:9-11.-Dead people in the grave are represented as speaking.
And Sheol or the grave (margin) is represented as being moved and
stirred. That it is the grave is clear from the reference to the “worms.”
Isa. 24:4.-“The earth mourneth.” (See under Paronomasia). Similar
examples are seen in verse 7; 33:9. Jer. 4:28; Jer. 12:4. Lam. 2:8.
Hos. 4:3. Joe. 1:10. Amo. 1:2, etc.

Isa. 24:23.-“Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun
ashamed,” etc. And this, in order to emphasise the glory of the
presence of the Lord.

Jer. 51:48.-“Then the heaven and the earth, and all that is therein,
shall sing for Babylon”: i.e., the joy over her fall shall be great and
universal.

Isa. 55:12.-“The mountains and the hills shall break forth before you
into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.” And
thus is emphasised the universal joy of Israel in the coming day of her
glory, when Jehovah shall comfort her. So Isa. 49:13.

Jer. 31:15.-Rachel, long since dead, is represented as weeping. So
Mat. 2:18.

Lam. 1:4.-“The ways of Zion do mourn,” etc.This most elegant
Prosopopeeia graphically describes the desolation.
Eze. 32:21-22.-Dead people are represented as speaking out of
Sheol: i.e., the grave, as is clear from the whole context.

Verses 22-32 are about those who have been slain with the sword,
and are fallen and lying in their graves.
Hos. 2:22 (24).-See also this verse under Anaphora, Climax, and
Polysyndeton; and compare Deu. 28:23. Jer. 14:22, where the
heavens and the earth are said to give their substance, or withhold it,
by the hand of God. So Jon. 1:4.
Rom. 8:19.-“For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the
manifestation of the sons of God.” See under Metonymy (of Adjunct),
Ellipsis, and Epitrechon.
Rom. 9:20.-“Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast
thou made me thus?”
Rom. 10:6-8.-“The righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this
wise,” etc.
Rev. 6:9-10.-The dead are represented as speaking, notwithstanding
it says that they had been slain.

For, after the Church shall have been taken away, the Remnant of
Israel will be dealt with and go through a “great tribulation” and suffer
great persecution. Many will be martyred and “beheaded for the
witness of Jesus and for the word of God which had not worshipped
the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their
foreheads or in their hands” (Rev. 20:4).

In Rev. 6:9, this time of persecution is not yet over, and those who
have been slain are represented, by Prosopoposia, as speaking and
asking, How long it would be before the earth should be judged, and
their blood avenged. That this is not the language of the Church is
clear; for they address the Lord as Δεσπότης (Despotees): {9.,
Despot, Master, esp., a master of slaves. Despot (see Luk. 2:29. Act.
4:24. 2Pe. 2:1. Jud. 1:4). And not as Κύριος (Kurios), Lord, as the
Church always does.

They have “white robes” given to them, thus keeping up the
Prosopopesia.

The word “souls” is put for persons by Synecdoche (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).

Moreover the dead do not speak.

See Psa. 115:17; Psa. 146:4, etc.

v. Kingdoms, Countries, and States
1. A whole people as an individual man
Isa. 1:5-6.-“Why should ye be stricken any more? ye will revolt more
and more: the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint. From the
sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness in it; but
wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores.” (See under Hypotyposis).
Thus the whole Jewish nation is elegantly addressed as one man. See
verses 7-9.
Careful students of the Old Testament, especially in the original,
will find abundant instances of this Figure. See Isa. 7:20; Isa. 30:28,
etc.

2. A whole Nation is spoken of as a Man
Lam. 3:1 (2).-“l ат the man that hath seen affliction ... He hath led
me,” etc.

This is generally but wrongly taken of Christ. It is the figure by
which a People is personified.

Dan. 2:31.-“This great image ... stood before thee.”
3. A whole People or State as a Woman
Isa. 32:9-11.-“Rise up, ye women that are at ease;” etc.

Here the whole People is addressed as a class of women. So
chap. 3:18-26. Mic. 7:8-10, etc.

Idolatrous Israel is spoken of, and to, as an adulterous woman:
Jer. 3:1; Jer. 3:3-4; Jer. 4:30. Eze. 16:1-63 and xxiii. Hos. 2:1-23 etc.
This is based on such passages as Exo. 34:15-16. Deu. 31:16. Jdg.
2:17. Isa. 1:21; Isa. 57:3. Nah. 3:4. Isa. 23:15-17.
4. A City spoken of as a Mother (i.e., a metropolitan city)

2Sa. 20:19. See under Hendiadys.

See also for a city or People spoken of as a mother, Isa. 50:1.
Hos. 2:2. Eze. 23:2. Gal. 4:26.

5. Cities and Villages are spoken of as Daughters

Jos. 17:16. Num. 21:25. Jdg. 11:26, etc. See esp. Jos. 15:45; Jos.
15:47; Jos. 17:11; Jos. 17:16-17. 1Ch. 7:28-29; 1Ch. 18:1-2; 2Ch.
13:19; 2Ch. 28:18, etc.
Psa. 45:12 (13).-“The daughter of Tyre”: i.e., as explained by
Epexegesis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), the rich among the peoples.
Psa. 137:8.-The “daughter of Babylon.” It is possible that the ‘little
ones” of verse 9 may be small offshoots of Great Babylon, and not
literal infants.
Lam. 1:6; Lam. 2:1, etc.-The “daughter of Zion.”
Lam. 2:2.-The “daughter of Judah.”
Zec. 9:9.-“Daughter of Zion,” “Daughter of Jerusalem.”

And elsewhere often. See Isa. 1:8; Isa. 10:32; Isa. 16:1; Isa. 37:22.
Jer. 4:31; Jer. 6:2. Mic. 4:10; Mic. 4:13. Zep. 3:10; Zep. 3:14.
Jer. 31:4; Jer. 31:21.-Virgin of Israel.”

So chap. 18:13, and Amo. 5:2.

Sometimes “virgin” and “daughter” are combined. Isa. 23:12; Isa.
37:22; Isa. 47:1. Jer. 46:11. Lam. 2:13.

vi. Human Actions attributed to Things, etc.

Called SOMATOPCEIA (S6-mat-o-poe’-ia). Greek σωματοποῇα, from
σωμα (séma), a body, and ποιεῖν (poiein), to make. Hence, to make
like a body or person, as we speak of embodying.
Gen. 4:7.-“Sin lieth at the door.”

See Metonymy, by which “sin” is put for sin-offering, and this sin-
offering is a live animal represented as a person waiting at the door.
The Hebrew 22? (rahvatz) is specially used of animals.
Gen. 18:20.-“The cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great.”

This is Prosopoposia, whereas in Jam. 5:4 we have it literally.
Gen. 30:33.-“So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to
come.”

See under Antimereia (of Adv.).
Exo. 18:8.-“All the travail that had found them.”

So Gen. 44:34. Num. 20:14. Deu. 31:17; Deu. 31:21; Deu. 31:29.
Job. 31:29. Psa. 116:3; Psa. 119:143.
Job. 16:8.-“My leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face.”
Psa. 85:10 (11).-“Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and
peace have kissed each other.”
Isa. 59:12.-“Our sins testify against us.”
Isa. 59:14.-“Judgment is turned away backward, and justice standeth
afar off.”
Jer. 14:7.-“Our iniquities testify against us.”
1Co. 13:4-7.-Human actions are attributed to charity.
Jam. 1:15.-“When lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin.” See
under Climax.
Rev. 18:5.-“Her sins have reached unto heaven.”
Antiprosopopeeia; or, Anti-Personification
The opposite of Prosopopoeia; Persons represented as inanimate
things
An -ti-pros-o ‘-po-poe-ia. This is the name of the former figure with ἀντ
(anti), opposite, prefixed. The name is given to this figure because it is
the opposite of the-other: persons being represented as things,
instead of things as persons.

2Sa. 16:9.-“Then said Abishai the son of Zeruiah unto the king, Why
should this dead dog curse thy lord, the king? let me go over, | pray
thee, and take off his head.”

A dog does not curse; still less does a “dead dog”: but the vivid
figure is eloquent, and stands for a whole paragraph which would be
required to express literally all that the figure implies.

Anthropopatheia; or, Condescension
The Ascribing of Human Attributes, etc., to God.
An-thrép‘-o-path-ei’-a. Greek, ἀνθρωποπάθεια, from ἄνθρωπος
(anthropos), man, and πάθος (pathos), affections and feelings, etc.
(from πάσχειν, paschein), to suffer).

This figure is used of the ascription of human passions, actions, or
attributes to God.

The Hebrews had a name for this figure, and called it 22? 22?
22? (Derech Benai Adam), the way of the sons of man.

The Greeks had another name for it! SYNCATABASIS (Syn-cat-
ab’-a-sis), from σύν (syn), together with, κατά (kata), down, and
βαΐνειν (bainein), to go: a going down together with: i.e., God, by using
this figure, condescends to the ignorance and infirmity of man.

Hence, the Latin name for it was CONDESCENSIO,
condescension.

The following are the divisions in which the various uses of this
figure may be presented:-

|. Human and Rational Beings.
1. Parts and Members of Man.
2. The Feelings of Men.
3. The Actions of Men.
4. Circumstances:
a. Negative.
b. Positive.
ο. Of Place.
9. Of Time.
e. Of Person.
Il. Irrational Creatures.
1. Animals.
2. The Actions of certain Animals.
3. Parts or Members of certain Animals.
4. Plants:
a. Of Genus.
b. Of Species.
Ill. Inanimate Things.
1. Universals.
2. Particulars.
3. The Elements.
4. The Earth.
Ι. Human and Rational Beings
1. Parts and Members of Man; or, of the Human Body
A Soul is attributed to God
in condescension, so that we may understand His essence and
will: i.e., God Himself.
Lev. 26:11.-“And | will set my tabernacle among you: and my soul
shall not abhor you”: i.e., / myself (see under /diom and Synecdoche).
So Psa. 11:5. Isa. 1:14; Isa. 42:1. Jer. 5:9; Jer. 5:29; Jer. 15:1
(rendered “mind”). Mat. 12:18. Heb. 10:38.
Hence the expression “to swear by one’s soul,” Jer. 51:14. (See
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] тагд. [Note: arg. Margin.] ) Amo. 6:8, where it is
rendered, “by himself.”

Lam. 3:20.-“And thy soul will condescend to me.”

This was the primitive text, and we find here one of the eighteen
emendations of the Sopherim, who altered it to, “My soul is humbled in
me.” (See Appendix E).

Jerusalem, personified, speaks, and says (verses 19, 20)
addressing God:

“Remember my misery and my forlorn state,

The wormwood and the gall.

Yea, verily, Thou wilt remember,

And Thy soul will mourn over me.

This | recall to my heart,

Therefore | have hope.”
A Body is used of Christ.

Col. 2:17.-“Which are a shadow of things to come: but the body of
Christ is the substance”: i.e., Christ Himself, either personally (verse
9) or mystically.* [№1е: See The Mystery, by the same author and
publisher.]

See under Ellipsis, and compare 1Ti. 3:16. Eph. 1:22-23; Eph.
4:12; Eph. 4:15-16.

The Head is spoken of Christ.
1Co. 11:3.-“The head of Christ is God.” This is in respect to His
human nature, and is spoken of Christ as man. Joh. 14:28. Rom. 8:29.

So Christ is said to be head of the Body: i.e., the Mystical Body.
Eph. 1:22; Eph. 4:15. Col. 1:18. See 1Co. 12:1-31. Hence
ἀνακεφαλαιώσασθαι (anakephalaiésasthai), to reduce to one head, ог
to head up in Eph. 1:10.

The Face, to signify presence.

It is used of the Divine presence in happiness and of Divine favour.
Psa. 16:11 : “In thy face (i.e., presence) is fulness of joy.” So Psa.
17:15.

Exo. 33:20; Exo. 33:23.-Compare 1Co. 13:12. Jon. 1:3. Psa. 51:11
(13).

Psa. 31:20 (21).-“Thou wilt hide therein the secret of thy face”: i.e., of
thy presence, in Divine grace and favour.

Psa. 17:2.-“Let my sentence come forth from thy face”: i.e., Thy
presence or Thyself, in righteousness and truth.

Psa. 89:15 (16).-“They will walk, О Lord, in the light of thy face”: i.e.,
in the light of Thy presence, enjoying Thy favour and blessing.
1Ch. 29:12.-“Riches and honour come from thy face”: A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “of
Thee”: i.e., from Thy grace and favour.

So Num. 6:25-26. Psa. 4:6 (7); 31:16 (17); 80:3, 7, 19 (4, 8, 20).
Dan. 9:17.
Mat. 18:10.-“Their angels do always behold the face of my Father”:
i.e., enjoy or stand in His presence, which is explained by 2Ki. 25:19.
Est. 1:14.

Hence the hiding of God’s face meant the withholding of His grace
and favour.

Psa. 13:1 (2): 27:9; 30:7 (8). Eze. 39:24.

It is used of the Divine presence in anger and judgment.
Psa. 9:3 (4).-“They shall fall and perish from thy face” ({6., at Thy
presence manifested in judgment).
Psa. 21:9 (10).-“Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of
Thy face” (i.e., Thy presence in judgment).

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] actually renders this “anger”: but not in

Psa. 34:16.-“The face of the Lord is against them that do evil” ({6., the
anger of the Lord, as in 21:9 and Lam. 4:16. See A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] marg.
[Note: arg. Margin.] )

2Th. 1:9.-“The face of the Lord.” Here, it is rendered “presence.” See
under Ellipsis. So 1Pe. 3:12.

It is used of Jehovah Himself, for emphasis.

Exo. 33:14-15, as is explained in verse 16, and Isa. 63:9. Exo. 23:20,
etc., where doubtless Christ is meant by “the angel.”

So Exo. 23:15 : “None shall appear before my face (i.e., Me) empty.”
Lev. 17:10.-“I will set my face (i.e., myself) against that soul.” So Jer.
21:10.

Hence the shewbread was called the bread of the presence (lit.,
the bread of the faces), because it was in the holy place in the
manifested presence of God.

Exo. 25:30.-“Thou shalt set upon the table the bread of the faces
(2222, pahneem) before me (2222, I'phahnai) alway.” Observe
the Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).

Psa. 27:8.-“Seek ye my face”: i.e., seek me.

Psa. 100:2.-“Come before his face (i.e., before Him) with singing.”
Psa. 105:4.-“Seek his face (i.e., Himself) evermore.” So 2Sa. 21:1 :
“And David enquired of the Lord”: lit., sought the face of the Lord. (See
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] )

Psa. 139:7.-“Whither shall | flee from thy face?” (A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
presence): i.e., from Thee.

2Ch. 7:14.
Hence “Face to face” means great intimacy. Deu. 5:4; Deu. 34:10.
Num. 12:6-7, etc., which is explained by Exo. 20:18-21. In Num. 12:8
we have “mouth to mouth” for the first time. See below.

Eyes are attributed to God.

2Sa. 16:22.-“The Lord will behold with his eye.” This was the primitive
text; and is one of the eighteen passages altered by the Sopherim
(see Appendix E) to “mine eye,” which has been taken (by Metonymy)
to stand for tears or affliction.
Zec. 2:8 (12).-“He that toucheth you toucheth the apple of my eye.” So
the primitive Hebrew text read, but was altered by the Sopherim to “his
eye.” See Appendix E.

Eyes are used of God’s observation.
Psa. 11:4.-“His eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men”: i.e.,
the Lord observeth and noteth and understandeth the acts and ways
of men. See Job. 34:21 : “His eyes are upon the ways of man, and he
seeth all his goings.” So Isa. 1:16. Heb. 4:13.
Hos. 13:14.-“Repentance shall be hid from mine eyes”: i.e., | will not
repent. So Rom. 11:29.

Hence the phrase to “hide from one’s eyes” means not to look
upon or regard. See Isa. 65:16. Amo. 9:3.

Eyes are used of God’s grace and favour.

Deu. 11:12.-"The eyes of the Jehovah thy God, are always upon it”:
i.e., regarding the Land with Divine benevolence. So 1Ki. 9:3. 2Ch.
16:9.
Psa. 32:8.-A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] : “I will guide thee with mine eye.” Π.Ν. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] : “I will counsel thee with mine eye upon
thee.” Lit, | cause mine eye to take counsel concerning thee: i.e., | will
cause My Spirit to graciously to inform thee and lead thee in the right
way. (See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] )

So 1Ре. 3:12. See above.

Hence the phrases, “Mine eye spared them” (Eze. 20:17): i.e., |
was propitious toward them, and showed them My favour. So Eze.
5:11; Eze. 7:4.
“lam cut off from before thine eyes” (Psa. 31:22): 18., | have lost
Thy favour.

“To keep as the apple of the eye” (Deu. 32:10).

Ears are attributed to God.

Psa. 10:17.-“Thou wilt cause thine ear to hear.”
Psa. 31:2 (3).-“Bow down thine ear to me.”
Psa. 40:6 (7).-“Mine ears hast thou opened or bored”: i.e., Christ says,
“A servant for ever hast thou made me.” See margin, and compare
Exo. 21:6 and Deu. 15:17; and see under Metonymy.
Psa. 55:1 (2).-“Give ear to my prayer, O God.”
Psa. 71:2.-“Incline thine ear unto me and save me.”
Psa. 130:2.-“Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the
voice of my supplications.”
Eze. 8:18.-“Though they cry in mine ears with a loud voice, yet will |
not hear them.”
Jam. 5:4.-“The cries of them which have reaped are entered into the
ears of the Lord of sabaoth.”
See also Isa. 50:4-5, where Messiah speaks.
Nostrils are attributed to God.
Exo. 15:8.-“With the blast of thy nostrils the waters were gathered
together.”
Job. 4:9.-“By the breath of his nostrils are they consumed.”

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] margin says “That is, by his anger,” as Isa.
30:33. See Exo. 15:8.

Deu. 33:10.-“They shall put (or let them put) incense to thy nose.” A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , “before thee.”
(But see A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] )

Psa. 18:15.-“At the blast of the breath of thy nostril.”
Eze. 8:17.-“Lo, they put the branch (the Asherah) to my nose.” So the
Heb. Text originally read, but was altered by the Sopherim, “to their
nose.” See Appendix E.

A Mouth and Lips and a Tongue are attributed to God, in
connection with His will, His word, His commands, etc.
Num. 12:8.-“With him (Moses) will | speak mouth to mouth”: ie.,

familiarly, and with really audible words.
Deu. 8:3.-“By every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of Jehovah
doth man live.” So Mat. 4:4.
Jos. 9:14.-“Апа the men took of their victuals, and asked not counsel
at the mouth of the Lord.”
Job. 11:5.-“Oh that God would speak and open his lips against thee.”
Isa. 11:4.-“He shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with
the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.”

This is quoted of Christ in 2Th. 2:8.
Isa. 30:27.-“His lips are full of indignation, and his tongue as a
devouring fire.”
Isa. 55:11.-“So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth.”
A Voice is attributed to God.

Isa. 30:30.-“Jehovah shall cause the glory of His voice to be heard”:
ie., as in AV. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ,
“his glorious voice,” thus interpreting and rendering the Hypallage (q.v.
[Note: Which зее.] ). See Psa. 29:1-11
Arms are attributed to God, to indicate His strength and power, which

in men lies so largely in the arms.
Exo. 15:16. Job. 40:9.-“Hast thou an arm like God?”
Psa. 77:15 (16).-“Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people.” (5ο
Exo. 6:6. Deu. 9:29. Psa. 136:12).
Psa. 79:11.-“According to the greatness of thine arm.” Here, the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] both actually
render it “thy power” (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] thine arm).
Psa. 89:10 (11).-“Thou hast scattered thine enemies with the arm of
thy strength.” So R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] But A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] , “with thy strong arm” (see margin).

Isa. 51:9.-“Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord.” See
also under Epizeuxis.

Isa. 59:16.-“Therefore his arm brought salvation.” So Isa. 63:5.

Isa. 62:8.-“Jehovah hath sworn by his right hand, and by the arm of
his strength”: i.e., by His strong arm, or, His strength.

Luk. 1:51.-“He hath shewed strength with his arm.”

Psa. 89:13 (14).-“Thou hast an arm with might” (see A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] margin).

Here A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
both render it “a mighty arm.”

Isa. 30:30.-Jehovah “shall shew the lighting down of his arm.” Here

His voice is used of thunder, and His arm denotes His lightning.

The Arm of the Lord not only denotes power, but power executed
in judgment.
See Psa. 136:12.
The Arm of the Lord is also used of the making known of His
grace in wondrous power.

Isa. 52:10.-“Jehovah hath made bare His holy arm in the eyes of all
the nations.” Verses 7, 8 clearly show that this was His power
manifested in grace to Israel.
Isa. 53:1.-“Who hath believed our report (see Metonymy of Adjunct)?
and to whom is the arm of Jehovah revealed?”

Compare Joh. 12:38 and Rom. 1:16.

A Hand is attributed to God, by which various powers and
actions are indicated Power and Miraculous Operation.
Num. 11:23.-“Is Jehovah’s hand waxed short?” i.e., has His power got

less? So Isa. 59:1.
Job. 10:8.-“Thine hands have made me and fashioned me.”
Job. 12:9.-“The hand of Jehovah hath wrought this.”
Job. 12:10.-“In whose hand is the life of every living thing.”
Psa. 8:6 (7).-“Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of
thy hands.”
Psa. 95:5.-“His hands formed the dry land.”
Isa. 11:11.-“The Lord (Adonai) shall set His hand again the second
time to recover the remnant of His People.”
Purpose.

Act. 4:28.-“To do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined
before to be done.”

Protection, gracious deliverance, and security.
Psa. 31:5 (6).-“Into thine hand | commit my spirit.”
Psa. 144:7.-“Send thine hand from above: rid me, and deliver me out
of great waters.” See under Heterosis.
Joh. 10:28.-“Neither shall any pluck them out of my hand.”
Joh. 10:29.-“None can pluck them out of my Father’s hand.”
Act. 4:30.-“By stretching forth thine hand to heal.”
Providence.
Psa. 104:28.-“Thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good.”
Psa. 145:16.-“Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of
every living thing.”
Prospering.
Neh. 2:8.-“The king granted me, according to the good hand of my
God upon me.”
Neh. 2:18.-‘Then | told them of the hand of my God which was good
upon me.”
So Ezr. 7:6; Ezr. 7:9; Ezr. 7:28; Ezr. 8:18.
Preservation.
Joh. 10:28.-“Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.” And
verse 29: “No man is able to pluck them out of my Father’s hand.”
Punishment.
Exo. 9:3.-“Behold the hand of the Lord is upon thy cattle,” etc.
Job. 19:21.-“The hand of God (Eloah) hath touched me.” (See under
Tapeinosis).
Psa. 21:8 (9).-“Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies,” etc.
Psa. 17:14.-“From men which are thy hand, O Jehovah” (marg. [Note:
arg. Margin.] , from men by thine hand. Compare R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ): /е., “from the men who are instruments in
Thy hand, O Jehovah.”
Psa. 38:2 (3).-“Thy hand presseth me sore.”
Act. 13:11.-“And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee.”
Eze. 39:21.-“All the heathen shall see my judgment that | have
executed, and my hand that | have laid upon them.”
So Job (23:2) uses the word “hand,” by Metonymy, for his
punishment. “My hand ({6., punishment) is heavier than my groaning.”
(See A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ).

See 27:11. Hence the

Idiomatic Expressions.

“To stretch forth the hand’: i.e., to send judgments upon. Exo. 7:5.
Psa. 138:7. Isa. 5:25; Isa. 9:12; Isa. 9:17; Isa. 9:21; Isa. 10:4; Isa.
14:27; Isa. 31:3. Jer. 6:12. Eze. 16:27; Eze. 25:7. Zep. 1:4; Zep. 2:13.

“To put forth the hand”: i.e., to inflict punishment. Job. 1:11; Job.
2:5.

“To shake the hand.” Ι58. 19:16.

“To make the hand heavy’: i.e., to make the chastisement severe.
Psa. 32:4.

“To make the hand light’: i.e., to reduce the chastisement. 138.
6:5.
“To withdraw the hand’: i.e., to take away the punishment. Eze.
20:22.

“To turn the hand upon”: i.e., to repeat the punishment. Isa. 1:25.

Jehovah asks why this should be in verse 5.

“To lift up or spread out the hand”: i.e., to call for the receiving of
mercy, or invite to receive. Pro. 1:24. Isa. 49:22; Isa. 65:2.

“To open the hand”: i.e., to bestow or give bountifully. See Psa.
104:28; Psa. 145:16 above.

“To clap or smite the hands together’: i.e., to express derision or
disdainful anger Eze. 21:17; Eze. 22:13.

“To lift up the hand’: i.e., to swear solemnly.
Exo. 6:8 (margin). Deu. 32:40. Eze. 20:5-6; Eze. 36:7, etc. (See
also Gen. 14:22). This explains the difficult verse Exo. 17:16. See the
Text and margins of A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] There is the Ellipsis of the verb which is clearly understood
from the idiom, thus “Surely the hand is [lifted up] on the banner of
Jehovah.” So that the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] is quite correct in sense: “The Lord
hath sworn.” (See Ginsburg’s Introduction to the Hebrew Bible, page
382, 383).

“The hand of the Lord upon” a man denoted also the power of the
prophetic spirit.

1Ki. 18:46. 2Ki. 3:15. Eze. 1:3; Eze. 8:1; Eze. 33:22.

A Right Hand is attributed to God; to denote the highest power, and
most Divine authority.

Exo. 15:6; Exo. 15:12. Psa. 77:10 (11); 118:15, 16; 139:10. Isa.
48:13.

It denotes also His grace and mercy in delivering and saving His
people.
Psa. 18:35 (36); 20:6 (7) (margin); 44:3 (4); 63:8 (9); 80:15, 17 (16,
18).

It is used also of the place accorded to Christ in His human nature
as now exalted.

Psa. 110:1. Mat. 26:64. Mar. 16:19. Act. 2:33-34; Act. 7:55-56.
Rom. 8:34. Col. 3:1, ete. Eph. 1:20-22. Heb. 1:3-4; Heb. 8:1.

So Christ dignity is further described by the figure
THEOPREPOS, worthy of a god. 1Co. 15:25. Eph. 4:10, ete.

A Finger is attributed to God, to denote the putting forth of His

formative power, and the direct and immediate act of God.

Exo. 8:19; Exo. 31:18. Psa. 8:3 (4). So Luk. 11:20, by which,
according to Mat. 12:28, the Spirit of God is meant.
Isa. 40:12 (a span of the fingers). See 48:13.

A Heart is attributed to God.

Gen. 6:6; Gen. 8:21. Jer. 19:5 (6). 1Sa. 13:14 : “A man after his

own heart”: i.e., His own Divine and eternal purpose; having regard,
not to David’s worthiness or unworthiness, but to God’s own will. So

Act. 13:22. See also Jer. 32:41.

Bowels are attributed to God; to denote His mercies and His pity.
All these figures of Anthropopatheia are figures of Metonomy, by

which one thing is put for another. Here, because, when a person is

much moved by deep feeling, there is a movement of the bowels, so

they are put, by Metonymy, for the feeling itself.

Isa. 63:15.-“Where is thy zeal and thy strength, the sounding of thy

bowels and of thy mercies towards me?” So Jer. 31:20.

Luk. 1:78.-“Through the bowels of the mercy of our God.” (See A.V.

[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,

1611.] margin). Here it is translated, “through the tender mercy of our

God.”

Mat. 9:36.-“He was moved with compassion”: /#, his bowels moved.

So Mat. 14:14; Mat. 15:32. Mar. 1:41; Mar. 6:34, etc. (See also Gen.

43:30. 1Ki. 3:26. And compare this as attributed to God, Psa. 51:1 (3):

“The multitude of thy tender mercies.”) So Isa. 63:7.
A Bosom is attributed to God; to denote comfort and rest.
Psa. 74:11 (the hand in the bosom denoting ease, according to
Pro. 19:24; Pro. 26:15).

Isa. 40:11. Joh. 1:18 (“In the bosom of the Father”). Num. 11:12.
Feet are attributed to God; to denote His presence in the earth, in
power, in universal dominion.

Isa. 66:1. Psa. 74:3; Psa. 110:1. Isa. 60:13. In this respect the
earth is spoken of as His “footstool.”
Footsteps are also attributed to God.
Psa. 77:19 (20); 89:51 (52).

2. Human Affections and Feelings are attributed to God
Human affections and feelings are attributed to God: not that He has
such feelings; but, in infinite condescension, He is thus spoken of in
order to enable us to comprehend Him.
Rejoicing is attributed to God.
Psa. 104:31.-“The Lord shall rejoice in his works.” So Isa. 62:5. Deu.
28:63; Deu. 30:9. Jer. 32:41, etc.
Sorrow and Grief are attributed to God.

Gen. 6:6.-“It grieved him at his heart.”
Jdg. 10:16.-“His soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.”
Psa. 78:40.-“How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and
grieve Him in the desert!”
Isa. 63:10.-“They rebelled, and vexed his holy Spirit.” So Eph. 4:30.

See Zec. 11:8. Eze. 6:9.

Repentance is attributed to God.

Gen. 6:6.-“It repented Jehovah that he had made man on the earth.”

So Exo. 32:12; Exo. 32:14. 2Sa. 24:16. Psa. 106:45. Jer. 18:8; Jer.
26:3. Hos. 11:8. Amo. 7:3; Amo. 7:6. Joe. 2:13-14.
Anger, Vengeance, and Hatred are attributed to God.

Exo. 15:7.-“Thou sentest forth thy wrath.”
Psa. 5:5 (6).-“Thou hatest all workers of iniquity.”
Isa. 1:14.-“Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul
hateth.”
Isa. 1:24.-‘l will ... avenge me of mine enemies.”
Jer. 9:9.-“Shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?”
Nah. 1:2.-“God (El) is jealous, and Jehovah revengeth; the Lord
revengeth, and is furious: the Lord will take vengeance on his
adversaries, and he reserveth wrath for his enemies.”

So Eze. 5:13. Psa. 2:12; Psa. 85:5 (6). Deu. 1:37; Deu. 32:16. 1Ki.
11:9.

Comfort is spoken of God.

Isa. 57:6.-“Should | receive comfort in these?”
Eze. 5:13.-“And | will be comforted.”
Jealousy.

Exo. 20:5.-“For | the Lord thy God am a jealous*{Note: |t is noteworthy
that Inco (kabah) out of its six occurrences, is, in five, connected
with ©Г (EN, God.) God (Ε).”
Num. 25:11.-“That | consumed not the children of Israel in my
jealousy.”
Deu. 32:16.-“They provoked him to jealousy with strange gods.” So in
verse 21, and in 1Ki. 14:22. Isa. 9:7 (6). Eze. 8:3. Joe. 2:18.
Zec. 1:14.-“| am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great
jealousy.” See also under Polyptoton.

Zeal.
Isa. 9:7 (6).-“The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this.”

Displeasure.

Zec. 1:15.- am very sore displeased with the heathen that are at
ease: for | was but a little displeased, and they helped forward the
affliction.”
Pity.

Joe. 2:18.-“Then will Jehovah ... pity His People.”

3. Human Actions are attributed to God.

Knowing. Not actual knowledge as such, but the acquiring of

knowledge as though before ignorant.
Gen. 18:21.-“I will go down now, and see whether they have done
altogether according to the cry of it,t [Note: The Severus Codex reads
1 for ™: ie., their cry, instead of “the cry of it.” See Ginsburg’s
Introduction to the Hebrew Bible, page 412.] which is come unto me;
and if not, | will know.”
Gen. 22:12.-“Now | know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not
withheld thy son, thine only son from me.”

God, of course, knew it already; but, in wondrous condescension,

He stoops to make Abraham understand.
Deu. 8:2.-“The Lord thy God led thee, etc. ... to know what was in
thine heart.” So Deu. 13:3 (4). The Lord knew already: “For He
knoweth the way of the righteous” (Psa. 1:6; Psa. 31:7 (8). 2Ti. 2:19).
Psa. 14:2.-“The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of
men, to see (i.€., to know) if there were any that did understand,” etc.

So Psa. 53:2 (3). (See also this verse under Epanadiplosis).

The very action of our prayer to God involves an Anthropopatheia.
God knows all our petitions before we pray. And yet we have to pray
as though we were making them known to Him. Php. 4:6.

Not Knowing, the opposite of knowledge, is attributed to God.
Gen. 3:9.-“The Lord God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where
art thou?” This implies ignorance. The Lord knew; but the question is
put to make Adam know and realise his changed condition.
Gen. 4:9.-“Where is Abel thy brother?”

These first two Divine questions in the Bible are very significant.
See under Erotesis.
Num. 22:9.-“What men are these with thee?”
1Ki. 19:9; 1Ki. 19:13.-“What doest thou here, Elijah?”

So 2Ki. 20:14-15. Isa. 39:3-4.

To this figure must be referred the passages which represent God
as doubting, or having to wait to see certain results.

Eze. 20:8. Hos. 11:8-9.

Also when God tries, or proves, or searches, it is not that He does
not know, but that He may make others know.
Psa. 7:9 (10).-“The righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.” (See
Metonymy of subject).
So Jer. 11:20. Rev. 2:23. 1Co. 2:10.

So Christ declares that He will say:

Mat. 7:23 : “I never knew you”; 25:12: “I know you not.” Luk. 13:25;
Luk. 13:27.

The questions of Christ in the New Testament are to be referred to
the same Figure.
Mat. 22:20.-“Whose is this image and superscription?”

Also verse 45: “If David then call him Lord, how is he his son?”
Luk. 8:45.-“Who touched me?”

Remembering.

Gen. 8:1.-“And God remembered Noah.” Gen. 30:22. 1Sa. 1:11; 1Sa.
1:19.
Gen. 9:15-16, and Exo. 6:5, where God speaks of remembering His
covenant. So Psa. 105:8; Psa. 105:42* [Note: See the Structure of this
Psalm in A Key to the Psalms, by the same author and publisher.] ;
106:45: “He remembered for them His covenant,” though “they (verse
13) soon forgat His works,” and (verse 21) “they forgat God their
saviour.”

It denotes specially a remembrance for good. As in Psa. 25:6-7;
Psa. 78:39; Psa. 115:12; Psa. 119:49; Psa. 136:13. Isa. 43:25. Rev.
18:5.

Exo. 2:24.-“And God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with
Isaac, and with Jacob.” See this passage under the figures
Synonymia, Anaphora, Polysyndeton, and Metonymy (of the Cause).
1Sa. 1:11.-“If thou wilt ... remember me and not forget thine
handmaid.” See under Pleonasm.

1Sa. 1:19.-“And the Lord remembered her.” There is Hypocatastasis
here; for it is implied that He heard Hannah’s prayer (verse 9), and did
according to her request.

Psa. 78:39.-“Не remembered that they were but flesh.” This stands in
solemn contrast with verse 42: “They remembered not His hand.”

Psa. 103:14.-“He knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are
dust.” This is the one thing that man will not do: he will not remember
our infirmities. Man will remember our sins; but these are the very
things that God will not remember (Isa. 43:25). Infinite in power, He
remembers our weakness. Perfect in holiness, He will not remember
our sins.

This remembrance, though in mercy to His people, involves the
punishment of their enemies.

See Psa. 137:7. Rev. 18:5.

Forgetting and Not Forgetting is also attributed to God.

Psa. 9:18 (19).-“For the needy shall not alway be forgotten.”
Psa. 13:1 (2).-“How long wilt thou forget me, O Jehovah.”
Psa. 42:9 (10).-“I will say unto God (El) my rock, Why hast thou
forgotten me?”
Isa. 49:15.-“Yet will | not forget thee.”
Jer. 23:39.-“I, even I, will utterly forget you, and | will forsake you”: i.e.,
the false prophets, who would say “the burden of the Lord.”
Hos. 4:6.-“I will also forget thy children.” (See under Metonymy of
Cause.)
Luk. 12:6.-“Not one of them is forgotten before God.”
When God says He will not forget His enemies, it means that their
punishment is certain, and will not be indefinitely deferred.
Job. 11:6.-“Know therefore that God causeth to be forgotten for thee
of thine iniquity.”
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
both render this “God exacteth of thee /ess than thine iniquity
deserveth”: where two words have to be supplied through not seeing
the Figure, which denotes that “God (Eloah) causeth the punishment
of thine iniquity to be deferred.” The Heb. is: “He constantly lendeth to
thee”: i.e., crediteth thee like a lenient creditor.

Psa. 74:23.-“Forget not the voice of thine enemies”: {6., do not defer
their punishment.
Amo. 8:7.-‘I will never forget any of their works”: i.e., | will surely
remember them and punish them for them.

Thinking.
Gen. 50:20.-“Ye thought (i.e., devised) evil against me: but God
thought it for good.”
Psa. 40:5 (6).-“The thoughts which are to usward: they cannot be
reckoned up in order unto thee.”
Psa. 92:5 (6).-“O Lord, how great are thy works! and thy thoughts are
very deep.”
Psa. 139:17.-“How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God”
(El).
Isa. 55:8.-These words may be presented according to their structure.
(See under Epanodos).
а — For my thoughts are not
b your thoughts, neither are
Ь your ways
а My ways, saith the Lord (Jehovah).
Jer. 29:11.-“I know the thoughts that | think toward you, saith Jehovah,
thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end.” (See
this verse also under Metonymy of Adjunct and Hendiadys).
So Jer. 51:12; Jer. 4:28, etc.
Hissing.
Isa. 5:26.-“He will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and will hiss
unto them from the end of the earth.” (See under Hypotyposis).
Isa. 7:18.-“Jehovah shall hiss for the fly that is in the uttermost parts of
the rivers of Egypt,” etc.
Zec. 10:8.-‘I will hiss for them; and gather them, for | have redeemed
them.”

Breathing.
Gen. 2:7.-“The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living
soul.”* [Note: Or “living creature,” as in chap. 1:20, 21, 24, 30.]

Compare Eze. 21:31 (36), and Joh. 20:21.

Laughing.
Psa. 2:4.-“He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord
(Adonait [Note: Or “Jehovah,” according to another reading.] ) shall
have them in derision.”
Psa. 37:13.-“Adonait [Note: Or “Jehovah,” according to another
reading.] shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is coming.” (See
under Metonymy of Adjunct).
Crying Out.
Isa. 42:13.-“He shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail against his
enemies.” And verse 14: “Now will | cry like a travailing woman.”

Compare Psa. 78:65.

Speaking, by way of discourse or command.

See Gen. 1:3; Gen. 2:16; Gen. 3:9; Gen. 6:13, to Noah. Gen. 12:1;
Gen. 13:14; Gen. 15:1-21; Gen. 16:1-16; Gen. 17:1-27; Gen. 18:1-33,
to Abraham. Exo. 3:4-5, etc., to Moses.

These instances occur so frequently that a great part of the Bible
would have to be transcribed if we gave them all.

Standing.
Gen. 18:22.-“But the Lord stood yet before Abraham.”

This was the primitive Text; but it is one of the eighteen passages
altered by the Sopherim to remove the harshness of the
Anthropopatheia. (See Appendix E).
Sitting.
Mal. 3:3.
Seeing.
Gen. 1:4; Gen. 1:10; Gen. 1:12; Gen. 1:18; Gen. 1:21; Gen. 1:25;
Gen. 16:13 : Exo. 2:25; Exo. 32:9. 1Sa. 16:8. Psa. 11:4.
Hearing.
Gen. 16:11. Exo. 2:24. So Psa. 4:3; Psa. 5:1-3; Psa. 10:17; Psa.
66:18; Psa. 130:2. Isa. 65:24. 1Jn. 5:14.
Smelling.
Gen. 8:21. Exo. 29:18; Exo. 29:25; Exo. 29:41. Lev. 1:9; Lev. 2:12;
Lev. 3:16; Lev. 8:21. Num. 28:2. Eze. 20:28; Eze. 20:41, etc. So New
Test.: 2Co. 2:15. Eph. 5:2. Php. 4:18.
Tasting and Touching.
Psa. 104:32; Psa. 144:5. Hos. 9:4. Jer. 1:9. Joh. 4:32; Joh. 4:34.
Walking.
Lev. 26:12; Lev. 26:24; Lev. 26:28. Deu. 23:14 (15). 2Co. 6:16.
Riding.
Deu. 33:26. Psa. 18:10 (11); 68:33 (34). Isa. 19:1.
Meeting.
Num. 23:4; Num. 23:16.
Returning.
Hos. 5:15.
Rising up.
Num. 10:35. Psa. 12:5 (6); 44:26 (27); 68:1 (2); 102:13 (14). Isa.
2:19; Isa. 2:21; Isa. 33:10.
Passing through.
Exo. 12:12; Exo. 12:23. Amo. 5:17.
Begetting.
Psa. 2:7. Heb. 1:5. So, those who believe, are said to be begotten
by God. Psa. 22:31 (32); 87:4-6. See especially 1Jn. 2:29; 1Jn. 3:9,
etc.
Washing.
Psa. 51:2 (4). Isa. 4:4. Eze. 36:25.
Hiding,
for protection and defence. Psa. 31:20 (21) (See Metonymy); 64:2 (3);
91:1.
Wiping,
in judgment. 2Ki. 21:13 (See Polyptoton); and in mercy, Isa. 25:8. Rev.
7:17.
Girding.
Psa. 18:32 (33); 30:11 (12); 45:3 (4).
Building.

Gen. 2:22 (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ). Psa. 28:5 : “Because they
regard not the works (222? poal = contrivance) of Jehovah, nor the
operation (2222 ma’aseh = the actual execution) of his hands.”

So Jer. 42:10. 2Sa. 7:27.
Binding up.
Job. 5:18. Psa. 147:3. Isa. 61:1. Hos. 6:1-11 I.
Opening doors, windows, etc.
Psa. 78:23. Deu. 28:12. Mal. 3:10.
Proving and Trying.

Psa. 17:3; Psa. 66:10. Zec. 13:9. Mal. 3:3 (compare Eze.

22:18-22).
Breaking.

Psa. 2:9; Psa. 3:7 (8). Isa. 38:13 (compare Psa. 22:16 (17) under

Paronomasia); 45:2.
Sifting.
Amo. 9:9.
Blotting out.

Exo. 32:32-33 (compare under Aposiopesis). Psa. 51:1 (3).

Eating, or Swallowing.
Exo. 15:7. Isa. 25:7-8 (compare 1Co. 15:54).

Enlarging.

Gen. 26:22. Psa. 4:1 (2).

Making a straight way.
Psa. 5:8 (9). Isa. 45:2; Isa. 45:13 (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ).
Pouring out.

Psa. 79:6. Eze. 9:8; Eze. 20:13; Eze. 20:21; Eze. 20:33. Hence the
pouring out (i.e., giving the gifts of) the Spirit in abundant measure.
Joe. 2:28-29 (3:1, 2). Zec. 12:10. Act. 2:17-18; Act. 2:33. Rom. 5:5.
Tit. 3:5-6.

Loosening the loins.

Isa. 45:1.

Wounding the head.

Psa. 110:6.

Breaking forth.

2Sa. 5:20; 2Sa. 6:8.

Shooting with arrows.
Psa. 64:7 (8) (compare verses 3, 4 (4, 5)).

Writing.
Exo. 31:18; Exo. 32:16. Deu. 9:10. Isa. 4:3. Dan. 12:1. So Jer.

31:33. Heb. 8:10.

Fanning.
Jer. 15:7. So Mat. 3:12. Luk. 3:17.

Sweeping.
Isa. 14:24.

Cutting off the Spirit.

Psa. 76:12 (13).
Anointing.
Psa. 23:5; Psa. 92:10 (11). 2Co. 1:21.

4. Circumstances are attributed to God
Circumstances are attributed to God, and may be divided into five
classes:-

a. Negative (when, by Anthropopatheia, He is represented as

not being able to do anything),

b. Positive,

ο. As to place,

@. As to time, and

e. As to person.

(a) Negative

Gen. 32:28 (29).-“As a prince hast thou power with God ... and hast
prevailed” So Hos. 12:3-4 (4, 5).
Exo. 32:10. “Now therefore let me alone, that my wrath may wax hot
against them.”
Isa. 1:13.-1 am not able to endure” (A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,” | cannot away
with.”) See under Ellipsis and Idioma.
Psa. 106:23.-“He said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his
chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he
should destroy them.”
Eze. 23:18.-“Like as my mind was alienated from her sister.”
(b) Positive

When God or Christ is spoken of as a Husbandman ({6., by
Synecdoche), or a vinedresser. See Isa. 5:1-9. Joh. 15:1-27 Mat.
20:1-16, etc.

As a Builder. Heb. 2:4; Heb. 11:10.

As a Warrior. Exo. 15:3. Psa. 45:3-5 (4 6); 46:8, 9 (9, 10); 76, etc.

As a Counsellor. Isa. 9:6 (5).

As a Physician. Exo. 15:26. Psa. 147:3.
As a Shepherd. Psa. 23:1-6 Eze. 34:23; Eze. 37:24. Mic. 5:4 (3);
7:14. Zec. 13:7. Joh. 10:11. Heb. 13:20. 1Pe. 2:25; 1Pe. 5:4.

As a Father. Deu. 32:6. Psa. 68:5-6. Isa. 64:8 (7). Mat. 6:1; Mat.
6:6; Mat. 6:8-9. Rom. 8:15. Heb. 12:5-10.

As a King, Prince, etc. Isa. 9:6 (5); 55:4; 32:1; 33:22, etc.

As a Spouse. Mat. 9:15; Mat. 25:1. Mar. 2:19. Luk. 5:34. Joh. 3:29.

As a Witness. Isa. 43:10; Isa. 55:4. Jer. 29:23. Mal. 3:5. Rev. 1:5;
Rev. 3:14. Joh. 18:37.

(c) As to Place

When God is spoken of being in circumstances which have to do with
Place and Time as men are-

Heaven is his dwelling place, 1Ki. 8:39; 1Ki. 8:43, etc. Psa. 2:4;
Psa. 24:3. Isa. 26:21. Mic. 1:3.

He returns to his place. Hos. 5:15.

He sits on a throne. Psa. 11:4; Psa. 47:8 (9); 103:19. Isa. 66:1. Jer.
14:21. Mat. 5:34.
Christ, also in the dignity of His human nature, is spoken of as
having a throne. Psa. 45:6. Isa. 16:5. Mat. 19:28. Heb. 1:8; Heb. 4:16;
Heb. 8:1. Rev. 3:21.

Also as having a footstool-the earth. Isa. 66:1. Mat. 5:35, etc. The
Ark of the Covenant is spoken of as His footstool. 1Ch. 28:2. Psa.
99:5; Psa. 132:7. Lam. 2:1.

Also as having all enemies under His feet. Psa. 110:1. 1Co. 15:25.
Heb. 1:13, denoting the completeness of their subjection. Psa. 8:6 (7).
Eph. 1:22. Heb. 2:8, etc.

As standing afar off. Psa. 10:1.

As standing at the right hand of His People. Psa. 16:8. Act. 2:25.

As sitting upon the flood, or at the flood. Psa. 29:10.

As sitting upon the Cherubim. Psa. 80:1 (2); 99:1.

As sitting upon the circle (i.e., the horizon) of the earth, and the
arch of heaven, as it appears to us. Isa. 40:22 : i.e., high above all.

As dwelling in the sanctuary. Psa. 68:17 (18). Lit., according to the
primitive orthography: “The Lord hath come from Sinai into the
Sanctuary.” In Zion, Psa. 132:13-14; Psa. 135:21. In the humble and
contrite heart, |sa. 57:15. With His People, Eze. 37:27. Joh. 14:23.
2Co. 6:16. In the thick darkness, 1К!. 8:12. In the Shechina, Lev. 16:2.
Exo. 13:21-22; Exo. 16:10. Num. 9:15. Isa. 6:4. Mat. 17:5.

(d) As to Time
Years are attributed to God. Psa. 102:24; Psa. 102:27 (25, 28). (Heb.
1:12). Job. 36:26.

Days. Dan. 7:9. Mic. 5:2 (1) (see the Heb.). 2Pe. 3:18 (see the
Greek). Heb. 13:8.

Christ is said to be the “first-born” as to time. Rom. 8:29. Col. 1:15;
Col. 1:18. Heb. 1:6.* [Note: See article, “Word,” in Bullinger’s Lexicon
and Concordance. Longmans.]

(e) As to Circumstances connected with the person
Arms are attributed to God: i.e., weapons of war. Psa. 35:2-3. Isa.
59:17-18. Jer. 50:25; Jer. 51:20.

Bow and Arrow. Psa. 21:12 (13). Lam. 2:4; Lam. 3:12-13. Deu.
32:23; Deu. 32:42. Job. 6:4. Psa. 38:2 (3); 64:7 (8). Zec. 9:14.

The Arrows of God. Psa. 18:14 (15); 144:6. Hab. 3:11.
Sword. Deu. 32:41. Jdg. 7:20. Psa. 17:13. Isa. 27:1; Isa. 34:5-6.
Eze. 21:9 (14). Zec. 13:7.

Spear. Hab. 3:11.

Shield or Buckler. Gen. 15:1. Deu. 33:29. Psa. 3:3 (4); 18:2 (3);
28:7; 84:11 (12). (See under Metaphor.)

Chariots are attributed to God. Psa. 68:17 (18). 2Ki. 6:16-17.

Clouds are represented as His chariots. Psa. 18:10-11 (11, 12);
104:3. Isa. 19:1.

Riches. Pro. 8:18. Rom. 2:4; Rom. 9:23; Rom. 10:12; Rom. 11:33.
2Co. 8:9. Eph. 1:7; Eph. 1:18; Eph. 2:4; Eph. 2:7; Eph. 3:8; Eph. 3:16.
Col. 1:27. Php. 4:19.

An Inheritance is attributed to God. Deu. 32:9. Jer. 2:7; Jer. 12:7-8.

A Book is attributed to God.

A book of providence and of grace (Psa. 139:16) which may be
applied to the new birth of the members of the body of
Christ.
A Book of Life. Exo. 32:32-33 (compare verse 10). Num. 11:15.
Psa. 56:8 (9); 69:28 (29). Isa. 4:3. Dan. 12:1. Mal. 3:16. Php. 4:3. Rev.
3:5; Rev. 13:8; Rev. 17:8; Rev. 20:12; Rev. 20:15; Rev. 21:7.

A Book of Judgment. Dan. 7:10. Rev. 20:12.

Oil or Anointing is attributed to God (Psa. 45:7 (8). Heb. 1:9) which
may apply to the Holy Spirit. Isa. 61:1. Act. 10:38 The word “Christ”
means anointed, both in its Hebrew form 2222, Messiah, and its
Greek form Χριστός, christos. See Psa. 2:2. Dan. 9:25-26. Joh. 1:41
(42); 4:25.

“Christians” are therefore only those who are thus anointed by the
Holy Spirit. 20ο. 1:21. 1Un. 2:20; 1Jn. 2:27. Act. 11:26.

Bread is attributed to God. Num. 28:2 (see Synecdoche). Joh.
6:35; Joh. 6:48.

A Seal is attributed to God. Jer. 22:24. Hag. 2:23.

Treasure is attributed to God. In a good sense, Deu. 28:12; and in
judgment, Deu. 32:34-35, which is referred to in Rom. 2:5; Rom.
2:9-10.
Out of this He brings Arms, Jeremiah 1. 25; and Winds, Psa.
135:7. Jer. 10:13; Jer. 51:16.

Spiritual blessings are also said to be in the Divine treasuries. Isa.
33:6. Mat. 6:20; Mat. 19:21. Mar. 10:21. Luk. 12:33; Luk. 18:22. 2Co.
AT.

Raiment is attributed to God. Psa. 93:1; Psa. 104:1-2. Isa. 51:9;
Isa. 59:17.

A Banner or Flag is attributed to God. Exo. 17:15 (16). Psa. 60:4
(6). Son. 2:4 Isa. 5:26; Isa. 11:10 (12); 59:19.

A Rod, Staff or Sceptre is attributed to God or Christ. Psa. 23:4,
and, by Metonymy, is put for His power and authority. Psa. 2:9; Psa.
45:6 (7); 110:2. Heb. 1:8.

Il. God is figured by an Irrational Creature
1. Animals
Christ is called а Lamb. Joh. 1:29. 1Co. 5:7. 1Pe. 1:19. Rev. 5:6; Rev.
13:8.
Christ is called a Lion. Rev. 5:5.
2. The Actions of Certain Animals are attributed to God
To bellow or roar. |sa. 42:13, etc. Jer. 25:30. Hos. 11:10. Joe. 3:16.
Amo. 1:2.

Thunder is called the voice of the Lord. Psa. 29:3; Psa. 29:9 : The
cry of Christ is called roaring. Psa. 22:1 (2) (See Heb. 5:7). Psa. 38:8
(9).

To fly. 2Sa. 22:11. Psa. 18:10 (11).

To brood or incubate. Gen. 1:2.

3. Parts or Members of Certain Animals are attributed to God
A horn. 2Sa. 22:3. Psa. 18:2 (3). Messiah is so called. Luk. 1:69
(Hence it is used, by Metonymy, for strength and power. Psa. 75:10
(11); 112:9. Lam. 2:3)

Wings and Feathers are attributed to God. Psa. 91:4. Hence “the
shadow of his wings.” denotes His care. Psa. 17:8; Psa. 36:7 (8); 57:1;
63:7 (8). And “the covert of His wings” denotes protection. Psa. 61:4
(5). Compare Deu. 32:11. Isa. 31:5. Mat. 23:37.
4. Certain Plants are used as figures of God
(a) Genus
A Branch or Sprout. Isa. 4:2; Isa. 11:1. Jer. 23:5; Jer. 33:15. Zec. 3:8;
Zec. 6:12.
The Fruit of the Earth. Ι58. 4:2.
Wood (green or living). Luk. 23:31.
A Root. Isa. 11:10. Rom. 15:12. Rev. 5:5; Rev. 22:16.
(b) Species
A Cedar. Eze. 17:22-23.
A Vine. Joh. 15:1-5.
Ill. Inanimate Things are sometimes used as figures of God
1. Universals
The heights of heaven. Job. 11:7-8. Eph. 3:18.

Magnitude or greatness is attributed to God. Exo. 15:16; Exo.
18:11. Num. 14:19. Deu. 3:24. Ezr. 5:8. Psa. 48:1 (2); 47:2 (3). Jer.
32:17-19. Dan. 2:45. Mal. 1:14, etc.

Comparison is used of God.

Greater than man. Job. 33:12.
Greater than our heart. 1Jn. 3:20.
Greater than all. Joh. 10:20.

Multitude or fulness is attributed to God. Psa. 86:15; Psa. 103:8;
Psa. 130:7.

In spite of all this condescension, it is impossible to convey to
human understanding, the greatness, vastness, illimitable perfection
and infinity of God. Psa. 36:5-8 (6-9). Rom. 11:33. 1Co. 2:10, etc.

2. Particulars
God is spoken of as Light. 1Jn. 1:5. It would require a volume to
investigate and carry out all that is taught by this wondrous Metaphor.
First, we should have to understand what Light itself is, and science
was never more baffled than to-day in defining it or explaining it. So is
God incomprehensible. A little while ago they thought they knew.
Professor Rxyntgen has now shown that they do not yet know.

Lights. Jam. 1:17. “The Father of lights”: i.e., the source, not only
of light itself, but of all light producers and light-bearers and light
givers: viz., the sun, moon, stars, planets, and all the fountains of light
contained in earthly substances producing electricity, gas, and light of
all kinds.

Psa. 27:1.-“The Lord is my light”: i.e., the source and origin of my life
and grace and salvation, etc., etc. Compare Num. 6:25. Psa. 36:9
(10); 43:3, etc.

3. Certain Elements are used as emblems of God
God is spoken of as a Fire. Deu. 4:24; Deu. 9:3; Deu. 32:27. Isa.
10:17. Hence the smoke of fire denotes His anger. Psa. 74:1; Psa.
80:4 (5) (margin). Deu. 29:20.
God is spoken of as a Lamp. 2Sa. 22:29. Psa. 18:28 (29). Hence
His word is so called. Psa. 119:105. Pro. 6:23. 2Pe. 1:19.

God is spoken of as Air or Wind, and breath is attributed to Him.
Job. 4:9. Psa. 18:15 (16). Isa. 30:33.

God is spoken of as Water. Jer. 2:13; Jer. 17:13. Psa. 36:8-9 (9,
10). Joh. 7:37-39. The gift of the Holy Spirit pertains to this figure. Isa.
44:3. Joe. 2:28-29 (3:1, 2). Zec. 12:10. Act. 2:17-18; Act. 2:33. Tit.
3:5-6. The blessings and merits of Christ are called the water of life.
Joh. 4:10; Joh. 4:14. Compare Isa. 55:1. Eze. 36:25. Zec. 14:8.

God is figured by things which pertain to the EARTH.

A Stone. Psa. 118:22. Mat. 21:42. Act. 4:11. 1Pe. 2:7.

A corner-stone, Eph. 2:20-21; and foundation and stumbling stone,
Isa. 8:14; Isa. 28:16. Zec. 3:9. Luk. 2:34. Rom. 9:32-33. 1Pe. 2:4; 1Pe.
2:6-8.

A rock (in situ). Deu. 32:31. Psa. 18:2 (3); 31:2, 3 (3, 4); 42:9;
73:26 (margin). Isa. 26:4 (margin).

So Christ is thus spoken of Mat. 16:18. (See under Paregmenon
and Syllepsis).
So, in relation to the earth, God is spoken of as

A hiding-place, etc. Psa. 91:1; Psa. 119:114. Isa. 4:6.

A fortress. Psa. 31:2-3 (3, 4); 71:3; 91:2; 144:2. Zec. 2:5.

A tower of strength. Psa. 61:3 (4). Pro. 18:10. 2Sa. 22:51.

A Temple, Rev. 21:22; and Christ is the Way thither, Joh. 14:6.

A Shade or Shadow. Psa. 121:5. Psa. 91:1. Isa. 51:16; Isa. 49:2.
Compare Luk. 1:32; Luk. 1:34-35. This shadow is called the “back-
parts.”, Compare Exo. 33:20-23.

Antimetathesis; or, Dialogue
A Transference of Speakers
An-ti-me-tath’-e-sis, from ἀντί (anti), against, or opposite to, and
µετάθεσις (metathesis), a placing differently (and this from µετά
(meta), beyond, or over, and τιθέναι (tithenai), to place or set.

So that Antimetathesis is a figure by which there is a transposition
of one thing over against another, especially of one person over
against another; as when the writer or speaker addresses the reader
or hearer in the second person as if he were actually present.

Hence the figure is called also POLYPROSOPON, pol’-y-pros-6-
pon, from πολύς (polus), many, and проситом (prosdpon), a person.
Hence many persons, or more than one person.

Sometimes the address is simple; sometimes it is continued, in
which case it is called a Dialogue.

In Rom. 2:1-29 the Gentile is personified, and by Antimetathesis is
addressed personally instead of being described as in chapter 1.

“Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that
judgest” (2:1, etc.).
Then, after describing and defining a true Jew, and distinguishing
him from one who is not, we have apparently a dialogue in chapter 3,
as Macknight has pointed out. Thus:-

Jew. “What advantage then hath the Jew? or what profit is there of
circumcision?”

Apostle. “Much every way: chiefly, because that unto them were
committed the oracles of God.”

Jew. “But what if some have not believed? Will not their unbelief
make void the faithfulness of God [who promised to be the God of
Abraham’s seed]?”

Apostle. “Far be it: No, let God prove true [fo His covenant],
though every man be a liar [in denying that Jesus is the Messiah]: as it
is written, ‘That thou mayest be justified in thy words [of threatening]
and mayest overcome when on thy trial.’ ”

Jew. “But if our unrighteousness [in rejecting Christ] establisheth
the righteousness of God [in casting us off], what shall we say? God is
not unrighteous who visiteth us with his anger, is He? (/ say this in the
character of an unbeliever).”
Apostle. “By no means: otherwise how shall God judge the world?”

Jew. “[This is hardly satisfactory]; for, if the truth of God [in visiting
His nation with His wrath] hath redounded unto His glory through my
lie [in affirming that Jesus is not the Messiah], why am | also [as an
individual] still further judged as a sinner?”

Apostle. “And why not add, (as we are slanderously reported to
practise, and as some affirm that we say), ‘Let us do evil that good
may come’? Of these the condemnation is just.”

Jew. “Well, then; Do we Jews excel the Gentiles?”

Apostle. “Not at all; for we have already proved both Jews
(2:21-24) and Gentiles (1:18-32) to be all under sin. Even as it
standeth written (in various Scriptures, which are selected and quoted
from Psa. 53:1-3; Psa. 14:1-3, etc.).”

Thus the figure Antimetathesis, or Dialogue, helps to clear the
sense and to indicate the manner in which certain words and
expressions should be translated.

Rom. 11:18.-“Boast not against the branches. But, if thou boastest
[know thou that] thou bearest not the root, but the root [beareth] thee.”
Here the apostle is addressing “you Gentiles” as such: not the
saints of God.
Rom. 11:19.-“Thou wilt plead then, The branches were broken off,
that | might be grafted in.”

This was true as to the effect, but not as to the cause. It was what
a Gentile, as such, would say, but not what the Holy Spirit said. No!
On the contrary, it was “Because of unbelief they were broken off.”

And so he goes on to speak of the Gentiles by Antimetathesis,
greatly enhancing and intensifying the argument.
Rom. 14:15.-“But, if thy brother is grieved with thy meat.” Here, the
change of persons emphasises the point that it is “thy brother” in
Christ. Not merely а fellow-man, but thy brother's Christian
conscience, which is stumbled at thy eating that which has been
offered to idols.
1Co. 7:16.-Here, the individual husband and wife are singled out and
addressed, as though they were present.
1Со. 15:35.-Here, an objector is singled out: perhaps the actual words
of a known person are quoted and dealt with.
Association; or, Inclusion
When the Writer or Speaker associates himself with those whom he
addresses
This name is given to the Figure because the writer or speaker turns,
and (1) includes himself in what he says for others: (2) or, vice versa,
includes others in what he says of himself; (3) or, includes many in
what he says of one.
We have examples in

Act. 17:27.-“That they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel
after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us.”
Eph. 2:1-3.-“And you hath he quickened, who were dead in
trespasses and sins; Wherein in time past ye walked according to the
prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the
children of disobedience: Among whom also we all had our
conversation in times past,” etc.

Tit. 3:1-3.-After speaking of the exhortations to be given to others, the
apostle includes himself when he comes to speak of the state and
condition of every sinner by nature. “For we ourselves also were
sometimes foolish,” etc.

Heb. 3:6.-“But Christ as a son over his own house: whose house are
we.”

Heb. 10:25.-“Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as
the manner of some is.”

Sometimes this turning to include others is only apparent. That is
to say, there may be a change from the immediate context, but not
from the real continuation as shown by the structure.

See Heb. 1:1-14 and ii:-

А 1:1, 2-. God speaking to “us.”

В -2-14. The Son (God) “better than the angels” (“them”).
А 2:1-4. God speaking to “us.”
В 5-18. The Son (man) “lower than the angels” (“them”).

Here 2:1 is the real continuation of 1:2-, and not of 1:14; while 2:5
is the real continuation of 1:14, and not of 2:4.

So that the change of persons here is only apparent, and does not
arise from the Figure Association.

3. As To Subject-Matter
Apostrophe

A Turning Aside from the direct Subject-Matter to address others
A-pos’-tro-phe. Greek, ἁποστροφή, a turning away from, from ἁπό
(apo), away from, and στρέφειν (strephein), to turn.

The figure is so called when the speaker turns away from the real
auditory whom he is addressing, and speaks to an imaginary one. It is
a sudden breaking off in the course of speech, diverting it to some
new person or thing.

It is called also PROSPHONESIS (προσφώνησις, pros-ph6-neeo-
sis), an addressing one’s self to: from πρός (pros), to, and φωνεῖν
(ph nein), to speak.

Also by the Latins, AVERSIO, aversion, or a turning from.

The examples of the use of this figure may be arranged as
follows:-

APOSTROPHE Addressed

|. To God.
Il. To Men.
1. Definite.
2. One's self.
3. Indefinite.
4. In prophecies.
М. To Animals.
М. To Inanimate Things.
Ι. Apostrophe to God

Neh. 4:4 (3:36).-Nehemiah turns from his description of the opposition
of his enemies to address God (by Apostrophe) in prayer: “Hear, O
our God; for we are despised: and turn their reproach upon their
own head,” etc.

There is another beautiful and sudden Apostrophe in
Neh. 6:9.-“For they all made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be
weakened from the work, that it be not done. Now, therefore, O God,
strengthen my hands.”
Psa. 33:1-22 -After addressing us concerning God in the third person,
the Psalmist suddenly turns away, and concludes (verse 22) with a
brief Apostrophe addressed to God,

“Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, according as we hope in
thee.”
Psa. 82:1-8 -After speaking of God (verse 8) and the wickedness of
man (verses 1-7), he suddenly concludes with the Apostrophe,

“Arise, O God, judge the earth; for thou shalt inherit all
nations.”
Psa. 104:24.-After enlarging on the wonderful works of God, he
exclaims, “O Lord, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast
thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.”
Psa. 109:1-31 -After describing how his enemies had rewarded him
evil for good, and spoken evil against him (verses 6-20), he suddenly
turns aside in verse 21, and prays, “But do thou for me, O God the
Lord (Jehovah Adonai), for thy name’s sake: because thy mercy is
good, deliver thou me,” etc.
Il. Apostrophe to Men: either Living or Dead
1. To certain definite persons

2Sa. 1:24-25.-In David’s lament over Saul and Jonathan, he suddenly
turns, and, (in verse 24), addresses the daughters of Israel. And in
verse 25 he turns from these to dead Jonathan.
2Sa. 7:23.-In the midst of David’s beautiful prayer, he suddenly turns
from addressing Jehovah as to what He had done, and speaks to the
people “to do for you great things and terrible.”
Psa. 2:10-12.-After speaking of what God will do, the Psalmist
suddenly turns, and addresses the kings and judges of the earth
(10-12).
Psa. 6:8 (9).-He turns from his prayer in trouble to address those who
had brought the trouble upon him. “Depart from me, all ye workers
of iniquity,” etc.
Isa. 1:4-5.-The prophet turns from the third person to the second,”
they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone
away backward. “Why should ye be stricken any more?” etc.
Jer. 5:10 is an Apostrophe, addressed to the enemy who should fulfil
the prophecy which was being delivered.
Jer. 11:1-23 -After prophesying the evils to come upon the houses of
Israel and Judah, he breaks off in verse 18, and speaks of himself,

“And the Lord hath given me knowledge of it, and | know it:
then thou shewedst me their doings.”
Act. 15:10.-After speaking to the apostles and elders as to what God
had been doing, Peter suddenly turns and addresses them as to what
they proposed to do.
Rom. 11:13-14.-He turns and addresses “you Gentiles” in the midst
of his revelation concerning the past and future of Israel.
Jam. 4:1-17 -He has been addressing the poor and oppressed: but, in
verses 1-6 he turns away, and apostrophizes the rich oppressors,
returning to his former subject in verse 7.

2. To one’s own self

This is done by the common Hebrew idiom, by which one’s “soul” is
put (by Synecdoche) for one’s self.
Psa. 42:5; Psa. 42:11 (6, 12).-“Why art thou cast down, O my soul.”
See also under Cycloides, Heterosis, and Synecdoche.
Psa. 103:1; Psa. 103:22.-“Bless the Lord, О my soul.”
So Psa. 104:1; Psa. 146:1, etc.
3. To some second person or persons indefinite (put, by
Synecdoche, for anyone)

Psa. 27:14.-After prayer to God for himself, David turns and
addresses anyone who is in like circumstances, and exhorts him.
“Wait on the Lord: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen
thine heart: wait, | say, on the Lord.”

See also under Epanadiplosis.
Psa. 34:12 (13).-He suddenly turns from the plural to the singular, and
addresses some undefined individual: “Keep thy tongue from evil,
and thy lips from speaking guile,” etc.
Gal. 6:1.-“Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are
spiritual restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; [now comes the
Apostrophe, to some, or rather each, individual] considering thyself,
lest thou also be tempted.”

See also Rom. 2:17 (“thou”); 9:19 (“Thou”), 20 (“O man’); 12:20
(‘thine’); 13:3 (“thou”); 14:4 (“thou”), 10 (“thou”). 1Со. 7:16 (“O wife,”
“О man’). See under Antimetathesis and Metonymy. Gal. 4:7 (“thou”).
4. In Prophecies
In certain solemn prophecies, the Prophet is told what to say directly

(instead of indirectly or obliquely).
Isa. 6:9.-“And he said, Go, and tell this people, ‘Hear ye indeed, but
understand not,’ ” etc.

(See under Polyptoton, and compare Mat. 13:14. Act. 28:26-27,
etc.)
Isa. 23:16.-Tyre is addressed as a person, after a prophecy
concerning the city.

See also 47:1.

Ill. Apostrophe to Animals

Psa. 148:7 (dragons), 10 (beasts).
Joe. 2:22.-“Be not afraid, ye beasts of the field,” etc.
IV. Apostrophe to Inanimate Things
Deu. 32:1.-“Give ear, О ye heavens, and | will speak: and hear, О
earth, the words of my mouth.”

Thus solemnly and emphatically opens this “Song of Moses”
(which describes the whole history of Israel from the beginning to the
end) and call us to give our attention to it and to consider it.

As every Israelite was expected to learn and study it (566 verses
44-47) its importance to the interpreter of prophecy must be very great
indeed. It is the key to Israel's history-past, present, and future.

Its structure may be seen under Correspondence (page 375).
2Sa. 1:21.-“Ye mountains of Gilboa.”
1К!. 13:2.-“And he cried against the altar in the word of the Lord and
said, O altar, altar, thus saith the Lord, etc.”

Psa. 114:5.-“What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou fleddest? thou
Jordan, that thou wast driven back? Ye mountains that ye skipped like
rams? and ye little hills, like lambs? Tremble, thou earth, at the
presence of the Lord (Adon), at the presence of the God (Eloah) of
Jacob.”

Psa. 148:3-5.-“Praise ye him, sun and moon; praise him, all ye stars
of light. Praise Him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be
above the heavens,” etc.
Isa. 1:2.-“Hear, О heavens, and give ear, О earth; for the Lord hath
spoken.”

These words were chosen for, and invariably put in, the title-page
of the early printed editions of the English Bible.
Jer. 2:12.-“Be astonished, O ye heavens, at this,” etc.
Jer. 22:29.-“O earth, earth, earth, hear the word of the Lord.” See
Epizeuxis.
Jer. 47:6.-“O thou sword of the Lord, how long will it be ere thou be
quiet?” See Eze. 21:16.
Eze. 13:11.-After saying that an overflowing storm shall burst upon the
work of the false prophets, he turns away and addresses the
hailstones. “And ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a stormy
wind shall rend it.”
Eze. 36:4; Eze. 36:8.-“Ye mountains of Israel,” compare verse 1.
Hos. 13:14.-“O death, | will be thy plagues; О grave, | will be thy
destruction.” See 1Co. 15:55.
Joe. 2:1-32 -After prophesying concerning the land, he turns away
and addresses it in verse 21. “Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice:
for the Lord will do great things.”
Mic. 6:2.-“Hear ye, O mountains, the Lord’s controversy,” etc.
Zec. 11:1.-“Open thy doors, O Lebanon,” etc.

Verse 2.-“Howl, fir-tree”; etc. “howl, О ye oaks of Bashan.”

Parecbasis; or, Digression
A temporary Turning Aside from one Subject to another

Par-ek’-ba-sis. Greek, παρέκβασις, a digression, from παρα (para),
beside, ἐκ (ek), out of, or from, and βάσις (basis), a stepping (from
βαΐνειν (bainein), to step).

A figure by which the speaker or writer steps from beside his
subject, and makes a digression, changing his subject-matter, and
adding something beyond the scope of his subject, though necessary
to it. Sometimes this digression is mentioned, and a promise given to
return to it again.
The figure was hence called by the Latins DIGRESSIO, or
digression, and was known by other names among the Greeks:-

PARABASIS (par-ab’-a-sis), from the above roots, a stepping
aside.

ECBOLE. Greek, ἐκβολή (ec’-bo-lee), a throwing out, from ἐκ (ek),
out, and βάλλειν (ballein), to throw: hence, a digression in which a
person is introduced speaking (or throwing out) his own words.

APHODOS. Greek, ἄφοδος (aph-od’-os), a going away from, from
ἀπό (apo), away from, and ὅδος (hodos), a way.

The nature of this figure therefore is clear; and examples are not
wanting in Scripture.

It is more than a mere Parenthesis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ): being
a digression to quite a different subject.
A parenthesis is really part of the same subject, but Parecbasis is
a stepping aside to another.

Gen. 2:8-15, is a Parecbasis: i.e., a digression, or change of subject-
matter, by which the provision made by God for man’s habitation is
described.

The original subject is then resumed in verse 16, from verse 7.
Gen. 36:1-43 is a Parecbasis, a turning aside from “the generations of
Isaac” (Gen. 25:19-34; Gen. 26:1-35; Gen. 27:1-46; Gen. 28:1-22;
Gen. 29:1-35; Gen. 30:1-43; Gen. 31:1-55; Gen. 32:1-32; Gen.
33:1-20; Gen. 34:1-31; Gen. 35:1-29) to “the generations of Esau”
(Gen. 36:1-8), and “the generations of Esau, in Mount Seir,” etc. (9-43)
before continuing “the generations of Jacob” in 37.

Gen. 38:1-30 is a Parecbasis, a stepping aside from the history of
Joseph in order to introduce an episode in the life of Judah. So that
Joseph’s life, which began in 37, is not resumed till 39.

Rom. 1:1-32 -The opening verses of this Epistle form a beautiful
Parecbasis. № is caused by the structure of the Epistle: in which 1:2-6
has for its subject “God’s Gospel,” which was never hidden, but was
always revealed (corresponding with 16:25-27, the subject of which is
“the Mystery,” which was never revealed, but always hidden).
Chap. 1:1 is, therefore, properly part of the epistolary subject,
which is resumed in verse 7 and continued to verse 15 (corresponding
with the Epistolary portion at the end, 15:15-16:24): and chap. 1:2-6 is,
therefore, a Parecbasis, and is thus made to correspond with the
closing chap. 16:25-27* [Note: See the structure of the whole Epistle
under Correspondence (page 385).] ; while verse 7 is the continuation
of verse 1, and not of verse 6.

Such digressions as this often arise out of, and form part of, the
Structures or Correspondences of which the Scripture is made up: and
the figure Parecbasis must be studied in connection with them.

Metabasis; or, Transition
A passing from one subject to another
Me-tab’-a-sis. Greek, µετάβασις, from µετά (meta), beyond or over,
and βαΐνειν (bainein), to step or go, a stepping from one thing to
another.
Hence, called by the Latins, TRANSITIO, transition, and
INTERFACTIO, a doing or putting a thing in between, as in passing
from one thing to another.

The figure is used when the speaker or writer passes from one
thing to another by reminding his hearers or readers of what has been
said, and only hinting at what might be said, or remains to be said.

Sometimes, however, it is used of an abrupt transition.
1Co. 11:16-17.-In verse 16, Paul only hints at the contentions of
others; and then passes on, in verse 17 to the subject of the Lord’s
Supper.
1Co. 12:31.-Having hinted at the best spiritual gifts, Paul suddenly
makes the transition to one which is more excellent than all: viz.,
Divine love, which becomes the subject of chapter xiii.
1Co. 15:1-58 -The apostle hints at the subject matter of his former
preaching among the Corinthians; but, in verse 12, he passes on to
discuss the great subject of the resurrection of the dead.

Heb. 6:1-3.-In verse 1, the “first principles” are mentioned; and, these
having been briefly hinted at, the transition is at once made to the
subject in hand.
Epanorthosis; or, Correction
A Recalling of what has been said, in order to correct it as by an
Afterthought
Ep’-a-nor-thé-sis. Greek, ἐπανόρθωσις, from ἐπί (epi), upon, ava
(ana), up or again, and ὀρθοῦν (orthoun), to set straight (from ὀρθός
(orthos), straight).
Hence Epanorthosis means a setting upright again.
The figure is so called when a writer or speaker has said
something, and immediately recalls it in order to substitute something
better, or stronger, or weightier, in its place, thus correcting what has
been said. Hence the Latins called this figure CORRECTIO,
correction.

The Greeks had other names for it, owing to its beauty and power,
and also to the frequency of its employment. They called it

DIORTHOSIS (di-or-thé‘-sis), from διά (dia), through, and ὀρθοῦν.
(orthoun), to set straight.

EPIDIORTHOSIS (ep ‘-i-di-or-th6‘-sis). The above name with ἐτή
(epi), upon, prefixed.

METANCEA (met’-a-noe-a), an after-thought, from µετανοέω (meta-
поеб), to change one’s mind.

Epanorthosis is of three kinds:

1. Where the retraction is absolute.

2. Where it is partial or relative.

3. Where it is conditional.
1. Where the Retraction is Absolute

Mar. 9:24.-“Lord, | believe; [but, remembering his weakness, the
speaker immediately corrects this great profession of faith, and says]
help thou mine unbelief.”
Joh. 12:27.-The Lord Jesus prays as perfect man, “Father, save me
from this hour: [and then, remembering, as perfect God, the work
which He had come to do, He adds] but for this cause came | unto
this hour.”

See under Metonymy.
Rom. 14:4.-“Who art thou* [Note: See under Apostrophe.] that
judgest another man’s servant? to his own master he standeth or
falleth. [And then, remembering the blessed fact of the security of
such an one, and the provision made for all his need, the Apostle
adds] Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is able to make him
stand.”

2. Where it is Partial or Relative

This phase of the figure has been called COLLATIO, Collation.
Pro. 6:16.-“These six things doth the Lord hate: yea, seven are an
abomination unto him.” See chap. 30:15, 18.

Mat. 11:9.-“But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? (and then, as
though correcting it and them, the Lord adds), yea, | say unto you,
and more than a prophet.”

Joh. 16:32.-“Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall
be scattered, every man to his own home.” (See A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
margin.)

Then another Epanorthosis immediately follows:-

“and shall leave me alone; [with respect to men, but not with
respect to God. Therefore we have the Epanorthosis], and yet | am
not alone, because the Father is with me.”

Act. 26:27.-“King Agrippa, believest thou the prophet? | know that
thou believest.”
1Co. 7:10.-“And unto the married | command: yet not ! but the Lord.”

See also under Zeugma.

1Со. 15:10.-“I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but
the grace of God which was with me.”
Gal. 1:6.-“I marvel that ye are so soon removed ... unto another
(ἕτερος, a different) Gospel. Which is not another (ἄλλος, another of
the same kind).”
Gal. 2:20.-“Nevertheless | live: yet not I, but Christ liveth in me.”
See under Zeugma, Epanadiplosis, and Polyptoton.
Gal. 4:9.-“But now, after that ye have known God: or rather are
known of God.”
2Ti. 4:8.-“Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness,
which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: [then
comes a beautiful Epanorthosis] and not to me only, but unto all
them also that love his appearing.”
1Jn. 2:2.-“And he is the propitiation for our sins: [then comes the
Epanorthosis, pointing out that He was the Propitiation for Gentiles as
well as Jews, so John adds], and not for our’s only, but also for the
whole world.”
See especially under Synecdoche and Metonymy.
3. Where it is Conditional
Gal. 3:4.-“Have ye suffered so many things in vain?-If it be yet in
vain.”
Amphidiorthosis; or, Double Correction
A setting both Hearer and Speaker right by a Correction which acts
both ways

Am -phi-di-or-th6-sis. From ἁμφί (amphi), about, on both sides, διά
(dia), through, and ἀρθοῦν (orthoun), to set straight (from ἀρθός
(orthos), straight).

The figure is so called because, like the former Figure,
Epanorthosis, it is a recalling or correction of what has been said, yet
not merely with reference to the meaning of the speaker, but also as to
the feeling of the hearer. So that the correction is on both sides. When
this, or rather a similar figure, is used in Argumentation, it is called
Prodiorthosis; and in Prodiorthosis it is not so much are calling, so that
there may be no shock at all (as in Amphidiorthosis), but a preparing
for a shock that does actually come.

Some have confounded these two figures, but this is the distinction
between them.
1Ki. 14:14.-"... that day: but what? even now’; as if the prophet meant
(being led of the Spirit) to say, first, “that day”; and then to add shock
upon shock by going on, “But what am | saying? ‘that day?’ even
now.”

See also under Ellipsis and Aposiopesis.
1Co. 11:22.-“What am | to say to you? Commend you herein? No,
indeed.”

Anachoresis; or, Regression

A Return to the Original Subject after a Digression
An-a-cho’-ree-sis. Greek, ἀναχώρησις, a going or drawing back, from
ἀνά (ana), back, and χώρησις (choreesis), a withdrawing or retiring
(from χωρέω, chore, to retire, withdraw).

This figure is a return from a digression which has been made.
Hence called by the Latins, REGRESSIO, a regression, and
RECESSIO, a receding or recession.

The Greeks had another name for it, calling it EPANACLESIS, Ep-
an-a-clee-sis, from ἐτή (epi), upon, ava (ana), back, κλῆσις (kleesis), a
calling (from καλέω (Ка/еб), to call), a calling back upon, or recalling,
in the sense of returning from a digression.

See Eph. 3:14, where the subject commenced in verse 1 is
resumed.

Rom. 1:7, where the subject (the salutation) commenced in verse
1 is resumed.

Further examples will easily be found by the observant reader.
Prolepsis (Ampliatio); or, Anticipation
An Anticipation of some future Time which cannot yet be enjoyed: but
has to be deferred
Pro-leep-sis. Greek, πρόληψις, a taking beforehand, anticipation.

The Figure is so called when we anticipate what is going to be
done, and speak of future things as present.

The name is also given to the Figure when we anticipate what is
going to be said, and meet an opponent’s objection. But that Prolepsis
is distinguished by the further description “Occupatio”; because, in that
case, the opponent’s objection is not only anticipated, but seized and
taken possession of (as the word means).

Whereas Prolepsis-when it anticipates time which it cannot hold or
keep possession of, but has to defer it, after having anticipated itis
distinguished from the other by the word “Ampliatio,” which means an
adjourning.

God Himself used the figure in Gen. 1:28, when he spoke to both
our first parents as then already present, though the building of Eve
did not take place till the time spoken of in chap. 2:20-23.
Exo. 10:29 is proleptic of the final departure of Moses from Pharaoh;
as Moses did speak to him again. See 11:4-8.

1К!. 22:50 (51).-Jehoshaphat’s death is spoken of proleptically. See
2Ki. 3:1-27
Isa. 37:22 beautifully speaks of the then future rejoicing of Jerusalem
at her deliverance from Sennacherib, as already present: “The virgin,
the daughter of Zion, hath despised thee, and laughed thee to scorn”;
etc.

Isa. 48:5-7.-Jehovah describes how He had from the beginning
spoken of future things in this way, and why He had done so.

Luk. 3:19-20.-The imprisonment of John is recorded by Prolepsis.
Compare Mat. 11:2, etc.

Heb. 2:8.-“Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet.”

This is said by Prolepsis, as it is distinctly declared that “We see
not yet all things put under him.”

In like manner we are to understand those Psalms which are
written for use in millennial days; especially those commencing “the
Lord reigneth.” The Lord does not now reign in the special sense and
manner definitely spoken of and described in these and similar
Psalms. We use them now (by way of application and) by Anticipation
or Prolepsis. But the day is coming when they will be used literally,
and be true by a real interpretation to the very letter.

There are three Psalms that commence “The Lord reigneth”: viz.,
Psa. 93:1-5, xevii., and xcix.; and it is remarkable that they each end
with a reference to holiness. This is because, when the Lord does
actually reign, as here described, all will be holy. His name will be
“hallowed” on earth as it is in heaven. “In that day shall there be upon
the bells (or bridles) of the horses, HOLINESS UNTO THE LORD; and
the pots in the Lord’s house shall be like the bowls before the altar.
Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holiness unto the
Lord of hosts” (Zec. 14:20-21). And it is written in Isa. 23:18 : “Her
merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to the Lord.”

This is why also, the four living creatures who call for judgments
(Rev. 6:1-17) which shall issue in the Lord’s reign on earth, do so with
the three-fold cry of these three Psalms. “Holy, holy, holy” (Rev. 4:8).

This is why their cry is foretold in Isa. 6:3 in connection with
Adonai upon his “throne, high and lifted up” (verse 1).

The songs and words of the Apocalypse, though then (and for the
most part, if not all, now) future, are spoken of as present. In other
words they are proleptic, being given to us under the figure Prolepsis.

Only by the use of this figure can we sing many of the hymns
which are put into our mouths, when they speak of future heavenly
realities as though resurrection had already taken place; which it has
not.
5. As to Feeling
Pathopeela; or, Pathos
The Expression of Feeling or Emotion
Path’-o-poe-i-a. Greek, паботпойа, from πάθος (pathos), a feeling or
passion, and ποιεῖν (poiein), to make.

This figure is so called, because the writer or speaker manifests
some pathos or emotion: or betrays some strong and excited condition
of mind.

It is of four kinds:-

Two arising out of pleasure: love and joy. And
Two arising out of pain: hatred and sorrow.
Examples, which are too many and too long to be quoted in full,
may be found in Isa. 22:4; Isa. 49:15. Jer. 9:1-2; Jer. 23:9-10; Jer.
31:20. Hos. 11:8-9. Mar. 3:5; Mar. 7:34; Mar. 10:14; Mar. 10:21. Luk.
19:41-42. Act. 7:54; Act. 7:57. 2Co. 2:4. Gal. 4:19-20. 2Ti. 1:16-18.

Aste|smos; or, Urbanity
An Expression of Feeling by way of Politeness
As-te-is’-mos. Greek, ἀστεϊσμός, refined or polite talk; clever, witty, or
pleasing language; graceful or happy turn of phrase.

It is from ἀστεῖος (asteios), of the town (from ἄστυ (astu), city): 1.Θ.,
the polite and genteel expressions of society: Urbanity as opposed to
Rusticity.
It is used as a change involving the application of words by way of
expression of feeling.

Sometimes Astejsmos is used as an addition affecting the sense
of words by way of reasoning. For this, see page 488.

Anamnesis; or, Recalling
An Expression of Feeling by Way of Recalling to Mind
An‘-am-nee’-sis. Greek, ἀνάμνησις, a calling to remembrance, from
ava (ana), again, and µιμνήσκειν (mimneeskein), to put in mind.

This figure is used when the course of the direct statement is
changed, to recall something to mind; and the matter, instead of being
stated as a fact, as it might have been, is mentioned by way of calling
it to memory.

It is a very effective method of emphasising what we wish to
impress on another.

The Latins called it RECOLLECTIO, recollection.

Rom. 9:3 is an interesting example; which has been already referred
to under Epitrechon and Hyperbole (q.v. [NNote: Which see.] ).

We should note that the verb is in the imperfect tense ηὐχόμην
(eeuchomeen), and has the sense of / used to wish. And it may refer
to his former condition as a Jew, and to his old hatred of the very
name of Christ.

It occurs as the opening of the Dispensational part of the Epistle to
the Romans. See under Correspondence.

Benedictio; or, Blessing
An Expression of Feeling by Way of Benediction or Blessing
Ben’-e-dic’-ti-o. English, benediction: and it means both the act of
blessing, and the blessing itself.

The latter is called a beatitude or blessing.

A large field of study is here opened out before us. It is
unnecessary for us to exhaust it. The student will find much spoil in
searching out and classifying the various blessings and beatitudes
which come under this figure.

See, for example, Deu. 28:3-6. Ecc. 10:17. Isa. 30:18. Eph. 1:3.

Then they may be considered collectively.

The three blessings at the creation. Gen. 1:22; Gen. 1:28; Gen.
2:3.

The blessings in the book of Psalms (1:1; 2:12; 32:1, 2; 33:12;
34:8 (9); 40:4 (5); 44:1 (2); 65:4 (5); 84:4, 5, 12 (5, 6, 13); 89:15 (16):
94:12; 106:3; 112:1; 119:1, 2; 127:5; 128:1 (2); 137:8, 9; 144:14, 15;
146:5).

The seven blessings in the Apocalypse. Rev. 1:3; Rev. 14:13; Rev.
16:15; Rev. 19:9; Rev. 20:6; Rev. 22:7; Rev. 22:14.
Euche; or, Prayer
An Expression of Feeling by way of Prayer, Curse, or Imprecation
Eu’-chee. Greek, εὐχή, а prayer, wish, or vow. Latin VOTUM.

This includes a prayer, or wish; also a prayer for evil; hence curse,
imprecation.

This figure is a change by which a statement is expressed as a
prayer, instead of as a matter of fact. And where the prayer comes in
by way of parenthesis caused by the sudden change.

Its use arises from and betokens an excited Condition of feeling.

The Scriptures abound with examples of all kinds, which may be
sought out and studied for instruction and example.

See Deu. 28:67. Isa. 64:1-2 (63:19; 64:1). Act. 26:29. Rom. 9:3.

The subject to which this figure introduces us may be treated of
quite separately: as the prayer may be introduced as an ejaculation,
as a parenthesis, or as an addition or conclusion, etc.
Psa. 118:25.-“Save now, | beseech thee, O Lord: O Lord, | beseech
thee, send now prosperity.”
Partneticon; or, Exhortation
An Expression of Feeling by way of Exhortation

Par’-ce-net’-i-con. Greek, παραινετικός, hortatory, from παραινέω
(рагатеб), to recommend, advise, exhort.

This figure is employed when a direct statement is changed, and
put into the form of exhortation.

The Scriptures abound with examples, which the reader may
easily find and note for himself.
Conismos; or, Wishing
An Expression of Feeling by way of wishing or hoping for a thing
@’-6-nis’-mos. Greek, οἰωνισμός, a divining by the flight of birds,
divination. Then, because these diviners generally saw what they
wished to see, it came to mean a looking for, especially in the sense
of a foreboding.

The Latins named the figure OPTATIO, a hoping for, or wishing. By
this figure, what is said is changed from a plain statement to the
expressing of it as a hope, or an ardent desire, or lively anticipation,
often introduced by the words “O that,” etc. See Deu. 5:29 (26). Num.
14:2.

See Deu. 32:29 : “O that they were wise, that they understood this,
that they would consider their latter end!”

Psa. 55:6. (7).-“Oh! that | had wings like a dove!”

Psa. 81:13 (14).-“Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, and
Israel had walked in my ways!” etc.

Isa. 48:18.-“O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! then
had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of
the sea.”

Isa. 64:1 (63:19).-“Oh that thou would rend the heavens, that thou
wouldst come down, that the mountains might flow down at thy
presence.” See also under Euche.

There are many examples, which the Bible student will call to mind
or search out for himself.
Gal. 5:12.-“I would that they were even cut off which trouble you.”

Thaumasmos; or, Wondering
An Expression of Feeling by way of Wonder

Thau-mas‘-mos. Greek, θαυμασμός, а marvelling. The figure is used
when, instead of describing or stating a thing as a matter of fact, it is
expressed in the form of marvelling at it, either directly or by
implication.

When the wonder is expressed as an exclamation, it combines
with it the character of Ecphonesis (see below).
Num. 24:5.-“How goodly thy tents, О Jacob.”
Mat. 8:10.-“When Jesus heard it, he marvelled, and said to them that
followed, Verily | say unto you, | have not found so great faith, no, not
in Israel.”

Rom. 11:33.-“O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and
knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his
ways past finding out!”

This is a proper Ecphonesis, except that it expresses wonder and
astonishment, so that it is combined with Thaumasmos.

Gal. 1:6.-“I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called
you into the grace of Christ unto another (ἕτερον (heteron), different)
Gospel.”

A simple statement would have expressed the fact, “Ye are soon
removed,” etc., but thus solemnly is our attention called to the whole
subject-matter of the epistle.

See under Correspondence (the order of the seven Pauline
Epistles).
Pranismos; or, Exultation
An Expression of Feeling by calling on Others to Rejoice
Poe-an’-is-mos. Greek, παιανισµός, the chanting of the poean. The
παιάν (poean) was a term first applied to a physician, then generally of
any saviour, or deliverer. Then it was used of a song of deliverance, or
of triumph after victory, and even before it, as a war-song. Then it was
used of any solemn song of triumph.* |Мо!е: This 15 also written
Uétisésd; as the name from which it is derived is also written Uéy.
Indeed, according to the 1890 edition of Liddell and Scott, the “u” in
these words and their derivatives would seem to have been the Attic
form. Moreover, according to L. and $., Ué,, 2222232 (whence
perhaps the Attic form) was, originally, the name of “the physician of
the gods”! In this character, they tell us, “he cures the wounded
Hades and Ares” (see Hom. ΙΙ. 5:401 and 899). From him, it seems,
the name came to be applied to human physicians. After Homer, L.
and S. tell us, “the name and office of healing were transferred to
Apollo.” And from his son, Esculapius (Asclepius, in its more Greek
form), physicians got another of their titles. So, then, dé meant a
choral song, of which the main burden was 13 (contracted from Р
apparently, which would seem to be connected with НОх, 21 heal?) ог
i, 99933, sung in commemoration of deliverance from some evil-[a
pestilence, perhaps, originally]-and hence a song of triumph generally.
Such a song would be sung before as well as after battle. Thence,
again, any solemn song or chant; often sung, as an omen of success,
before an undertaking.]
So that the figure consists of a calling on others to rejoice over

something, instead of merely stating the thing as a matter of fact; thus
emphasizing and calling attention to it.
Deu. 32:43.-The song of Moses, having commenced with an
Apostrophe (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), and carried us through the
whole history of Israel (see under Correspondence, page 375), ends
with a glorious and triumphant Poeanismos, in which Jehovah calls on
all the nations to rejoice with His People for His judgment on their
enemies, and the cleansing of His People and His land: thus carrying
us right on to the glory of millennial days.

The fourth book of the Psalms anticipates this time of rest and
peace for the earth. Hence all are called on to rejoice now (by
Prolepsis) in view of that glorious time.

Α 95. Exhortation for His People and sheep (verse 1), “to come

before His presence with thanksgiving” (verse 2). For the Lord
is “great” (verse 3).
В а xcvi. A summons to sing the “New Song,” “for he
cometh.”
Ь — xcvii. The New Song, “The Lord Reigneth.”
В а xceviii. A summons to sing the “New Song” “for he
cometh.”
Ь — xcix. The New Song, “The Lord Reigneth.”

Α ο. Exhortation for His People and sheep (verse 3), to “come
before his presence with singing” (verse 2), for the Lord is
“good” (verse 5).

Isa. 44:23.-“Sing, O ye heavens; for the Lord hath done it, Shout,” etc.
Zep. 3:14.-“Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel; be glad and
rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.”

Then follows the reason to the end of the prophecy.

Zec. 9:9.-“Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of
Jerusalem: behold thy King cometh unto thee:” etc.

Luk. 10:21.-“In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, | thank
thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these
things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto
babes.”

See under Catachresis.

Php. 4:4.-“Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again | say, Rejoice.”

See under Epanadiplosis.
Jam. 1:9.-“Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted.”

The Scriptures abound with beautiful examples. See Psa. 57:8 (9),
Isa. 42:10; Isa. 49:13. Jer. 51:48. Rev. 18:20, etc.

Asterismos; or, Indicating
The Calling Attention to by making a Star or Mark

As’-ter-is’-mos. Greek, ἁστερισμός, a calling of attention to a thing by
making an asterisk (from ἀστήρ, asteer, a star). A marking by putting a
star (* or ), in order to direct particular attention to a passage or
statement. Hence the figure is used when we employ (not an asterisk)
but some word, which answers the same purpose, in directing the eye
and the heart to some particular point or subject, such as “Lo!”
“Behold!”

As a concordance will furnish a complete list of these, it is not
necessary for us to give examples. We will only note that the word
“behold” is not a mere interjection, but is really a verb, telling us
actually to look and see, and observe and note attentively.

“Behold” seems to be specially the word used by the Holy Spirit
as the Inspirer of Scripture: while “Verily” (amen) is the word used by
the Lord Jesus; and “Yea” is the word of God the Father.

Psa. 133:1.-“Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to
dwell together in unity!”
Ecphonesis; or, Exclamation
An Expression of Feeling by way of Exclamation
Ec’-phé-nee’-sis. Greek, ἐκφώνησις, a crying out, an exclamation,
from ἐκ (ek), out, and φωνεῖν (phonein), to speak, from φωνή
(ph6énee), voice or sound.

The figure is used when, through feeling, we change our mode of

speech; and, instead of merely making a statement, express it by an
exclamation. So that Ecphonesis is an outburst of words, prompted by
emotion, and is not used as though any reply were expected.

It was called also ANAPHONESIS, an’-a-phé’-nee’-sis, the same
word, with ама (ana), up, prefixed instead of ἐκ (ek), out, a lifting up of
the voice.

The exclamation itself is called ANAPHONEMA (An ‘-a-phé-nee-
ma).

The Latins called it EXCLAMATIO, exclamation.

But note that, when the exclamation occurs at the end of a
sentence, as an addition by way of conclusion, it is called Epiphonema
(see page 464).

When the Ecphonesis is an exclamation thrown in parenthetically,
it is called Interjectio (see page 478).

Jos. 7:7.-“And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God (Adonai Jehovah),
wherefore hast thou at all brought up this people over Jordan,” etc.
1Ch. 11:17.-“And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me
drink of the water of the well of Bethlehem, that is at the gate!” This
would come also under the figure Gonismos (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]
).
Psa. 22:1 (2).-“My God (Eli), my God (Eli), why hast thou for saken
me?” (Mat. 27:46. Mar. 15:34). See under Epizeuxis.
Psa. 57:7 (8) is also a beautiful Ecphonesis.
Psa. 84:1 (2).-“How amiable (i.e., How lovely, or How delightful) are
thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts,” etc.
Isa. 1:4.-“Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evil-
doers, children that are corrupters.”

See under Synonymia and Anabasis.
Isa. 6:5.-“Then said |, Woe is me! for | am undone”; etc. This is the
true Ecphonesis of a convicted soul. A confession, not of what he has
done, but of what he IS; as to nature, condition, and deserts. Of such
an exclamation the result is ever (as recorded in the next verse)
“THEN flew,” etc.
Eze. 9:8.-“I fell upon my face, and cried, and said, Ah Lord God
(Adonai Jehovah)!” etc.
Hos. 13:9.-°О Israel, thou hast destroyed thyself; but in me is thine
help.”
Mat. 15:28.-“Then Jesus answered and said unto her, О woman, great
is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt.”

Mat. 17:17.-“Then Jesus answered and said, О faithless and perverse
generation,” etc.

Act. 7:51 is also an Ecphonesis.

Rom. 7:24.-“O wretched man that | am! who shall deliver me from this
body of death?” (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ). See Hypallage, Ellipsis
and Metonymy.

This is a true Ecphonesis; but, as concluding the whole of the
chapter, it is also in that respect a kind of Epiphonema (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).

This verse expresses the continuous experience of every true child
of God, who understands the conflict between the two natures:-the old
man and the new man: the flesh and the spirit, the old nature and the
Divine nature implanted within him by the Holy Spirit.

This conflict is the one thing of which a merely religious person is
destitute. It is the one thing that cannot be imitated by the hypocrite.
He never has an abiding sense of inward corruption and of the conflict
with it; because he has not the New nature by which alone it is
manifested and brought to light. He has no standard within him to
detect it, or by which to try it.

Until the truth of the abiding conflict between the two natures is
seen no spiritual peace can be enjoyed.

The fruits of the old tree are dealt with in the former portion of this
Doctrinal part of the Epistle (Rom. 1:16-32; Rom. 2:1-29; Rom. 3:1-31;
Rom. 4:1-25; Rom. 5:1-11): and then the old tree itself is dealt with in
chap. 5:12 to 8:39, and is shown to be (in God’s sight) as dead,
having been crucified with Christ. Thus, the conflict goes on till this
body of death (i.e., until this dying body). either dies, or is “changed” at
Christ's appearing.

Then the longing desire will be realised, and faith will be rewarded,
as expressed in the words that follow, where the Ellipsis must be
supplied:-“I thank God-He will deliver me-[and reckoning myself even
now as already having died with Christ (6:11)-Ι thank God, that He will
deliver me] through Jesus Christ our Lord.”
Aporia; or, Doubt
An Expression of Feeling by way of Doubt
A-p6‘-ri-a. Greek, ἁπορία, a being in doubt, or at а loss, from ἄπορος
(aporos), without a passage (a, privative, and Πόρος (poros), а
passage).

The figure is used when the speaker expresses himself as though
he were at a loss what course to pursue; or when we express a doubt
as to what we ought to think or say or do.

It was also called DIAPORESIS (Di’-a-po-ree’-sis). Greek,
διαπόρησις, from did (dia), through, and ἁπόρησις (aporeesis), a
being without passage or resource.

The Latins called it DUBITATIO, a wavering, a doubting,
uncertainty, doubt, and ADDUBITATIO, the former word with ad, fo,
denoting the beginning of the hesitation or doubting.

Hos. 6:4.-“O Ephraim, what shall | do unto thee? О Judah, what shall |
do unto thee?”

See under Erotesis.

Hos. 11:8.-“How shall | give thee up, Ephraim? how shall | deliver
thee, Israel?” etc.
See under Anthropopatheia.
Mat. 21:25-26.-“The baptism of John, whence was it? from heaven, or
of men? And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say,
From heaven; he will say unto us, Why did ye not then believe him?
But if we shall say, Of men; we fear the people; for all hold John as a
prophet.”
Luk. 16:3.-“Then the steward said within himself, What shall | do? for
my lord taketh away from me the stewardship: | cannot dig; to beg |
am ashamed.”
Epitimesis; or, Reprimand
An Expression of Feeling by way of Censure, Reproof, or Reproach
Ep ’-i-ti-mee’-sis. Greek, ἐπιτίμησις, reproof, reprimand, from ἐπιτιμάω.
(epitimao), to put a price upon, from τιµή (timee), worth or value.

It is also called EPIPLEXIS, ep’-i-pleex’-is. Greek, ἐπίπληξις,
chastisement, punishment, blame.

The figure is used, where a rebuke, reproof, or reproach is
conveyed.

Seeing that God’s ways and thoughts are the opposite of man’s, it
is impossible that God should speak to man without many rebukes
and reproaches.

These are of various kinds; and some have their own special
names, as will be seen below.

We give merely one or two by way of example, and as showing
what we may learn from them.

Luk. 9:55.-“He turned, and rebuked them (James and John), and said,
Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.” etc.

Luk. 24:25.-“Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to
believe all that the prophets have spoken.”

This was the rebuke for Jewish disciples, but Christians to-day
need it as much: for both believe and receive some Scriptures, but not
“ALL.”

The Jews received the passages which spoke of Christ's “glory,”
but rejected those that told of His “sufferings”: and Christians to-day
are guilty of the opposite folly.

The Jews thought the Lord Jesus was not good enough for the
world, and so they cast Him out. Christians, to-day, think they have not
yet made the world good enough for Christ, and so would fain keep
Him out.

Both take a part of the truth, and put it for the whole; and both,
therefore, come under this solemn rebuke.

The correction for the folly of both is given in the words which
follow, “Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, AND to enter
into his glory?” The Jews thought the former humiliating; and
Christians call the latter “carnal”: and so Jews reject the Scriptures
which testify of the sufferings, and Christians neglect the Prophecies
which speak of Christ's coming glories.

The Holy Spirit saith (2Pe. 1:19), concerning these prophecies,
‘The world is a dark place; and ye do well to take heed to the only light
in it.’ Christians, to-day, say that prophecy is a dark place, and ye do
well to avoid it!
Rom. 9:20.-“Nay but, О man, who art thou that repliest against God?
Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made
me thus?” etc. See this passage also under Apostrophe and
Prosopopesia.
Eleutheria; or, Candour
An Expression of Feeling by way of bold Freedom of Speech in
Reprehension
El-eu’-ther-i’-a. Greek, ἐλευθερία, liberty or licence. Hence,
ἐλευθέριος, (eleutherios), speaking or acting like a free man, frank.
The figure is so called, because the speaker or writer, without
intending offence, speaks with perfect freedom and boldness.
Eleutheria is therefore the bold reprehension of free speech.
It is called PARRHESIA (Par-rhee’-si-a). Greek, παρρησία, free
spokenness, openness, boldness, frankness.

The Latins called it LICENTIA, licence.

The words of Elihu (Job. 32:1-22 -xxxvii.) are a beautiful example
of this figure.
Luk. 13:32.-“Go ye, and tell that fox,” was a very frank and fearless
message to Herod.
Joh. 8:44.-“Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father
ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in
the truth, because there is no truth in him.” etc.

See under /diom and Metonymy.
1Jn. 3:10.-“In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of
the devil.”

This is free-speaking indeed; too free for the false toleration and
charity-mongering of the present day; but these are the words of the
God of love, through John the apostle of love.
The following places where the word Parrhesia is used in the New
Testament will furnish many interesting examples.

The word is translated:

“Boldness of speech,” 2Co. 7:4.

“Plainness of speech,” 2 Cot. 3:12 (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.]
boldness).

“Boldness,” Act. 4:13; Act. 4:29; Act. 4:31. Eph. 3:12. Php. 1:20.
1Ti. 3:13. Heb. 10:19 (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] liberty). 1Jn. 4:17.

“Be much bold,” Philem. 8 (πολλἠν ... παρρησίαν ἔχων).

‘With ... confidence,” Act. 28:31. Heb. 3:6; Heb. 10:35. 1Jn. 2:28;
1Jn. 3:21; 1Jn. 5:14.

Dative: “Boldly,” Joh. 7:26. “Openly,” Mar. 8:32. Joh. 7:13; Joh.
11:14; Joh. 16:25; Joh. 16:29.

With ἐν (en) in or with, “boldly,” Eph. 6:19. “Openly,” Joh. 7:4. Col.
2:15.

With µετά (meta), with, “boldly,” Heb. 4:16. “Freely,” Act. 2:29.
Aganactesis; or, Indignation
An Expression of Feeling by way of Indignation

Ag’-an-ak-tee’-sis. Greek, ἀγανάκτησις, physical pain and irritation;
hence vexation, indignation.

The figure is used when an exclamation proceeds from the deep
feeling of indignation.

See Gen. 3:13; Gen. 4:10; Gen. 20:9; Gen. 31:26.
Act. 13:10.-Here we have a forcible example of Paul’s indignation at
the opposition of Elymas the Sorcerer.
Apodioxis; or, Detestation
An Expression of Feeling by way of Detestation
Ap ‘-o-di-6x’-is. Greek, aTrodiwéic, a chasing away; from ἁπό (apo),
away from, and διώκειν (αἰδκείη), to pursue.

The figure is so called, because the speaker or writer repels
something, and spurns it as absurd or wicked.

The Latins called it REJECTIO, a rejecting or rejection;
DETESTATIO, a detesting or detestation; and ABOMINATIO, an
abominating or abomination.

Psa. 50:16.-“But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to
declare my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy
mouth?”

Isa. 1:12-15 is a solemn expression of Jehovah’s detestation of
religion, per se, such as existed among, and was manifested by, the
Jews at Christ's first coming. This passage describes the most minute
attention to every religious observance, which only heightens the
indignation with which the Lord repudiates it all, because it does not
proceed from the heart.

See this passage also under Ellipsis, Anthropopatheia,
Synathroesmus, and Hypotyposis.

Jer. 9:2 (1).-We have Jeremiah’s detestation of Israel’s idolatry.

Mat. 4:10.-“Get thee hence, Satan:” etc.

Mat. 16:23.-“He ... said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan: thou
art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of
God.”

The fact of this repulsion following so closely upon the other words
addressed to Peter in verses 17, 18, should have for ever precluded
the Romish perversion of them.

Act. 8:20-23.-Peter repels with horror the thought of Simon Magus
that the gift of the Holy Ghost could be purchased with money.
Deprecatio; or, Deprecation
An Expression of Feeling by way of Deprecation
Dep-re-ca’-ti-o. The name of this figure is from the Latin, and means
literally a praying against, an act of deprecation.

The figure is used in three senses:-

(1) A praying against evil, so as to avert or prevent its results: as
when an Advocate pleads former good character, etc., on behalf of the
accused person.

(2) Where the speaker prays against others, that evil may fall upon
them;or even against himself. This is properly IMPRECATION.

(3) When the ejaculatory prayer is for the prevention or removal of
any evil generally.

We have an example in the Deprecation of Moses:-

Exo. 32:32.-“Blot me, | pray, thee out of thy book.”
See this passage under Aposiopesis and Anthropopatheia.
Diasyrmos; or, Raillery
An Expression of Feeling by way of tearing away Disguise
Di’-a-syrm-os. Greek, διασυρµός, a tearing in pieces, from διασύρειν
(diasurein); and this from διά (dia) and σύρειν (surein), to drag, to
force away.

Twice the word is used in connection with Paul: Act. 8:3, “haltug”;
and Act. 14:19, “drew.”

This figure is so called, because it tears away the veil, or whatever
may be covering the real matter in question, and shows it up as it
really is. Hence, raillery which tears away all disguise.

Mat. 26:50.-“Friend, wherefore art thou come?”

Joh. 7:4.-The Lord’s brethren seek to reflect upon Him, as if He were
mismanaging His affairs. But, in this case, the Diasyrmos proceeded
from their own mistake as to what His mission really was. “There is no
man that doeth anything in secret, and he himself seeketh to be
known openly.”
Cataplexis; or, Menace
An Expression of Feeling by way of Menace
Cat’-a-pleex’-is. Greek, κατάπληξις, а striking down, terrifying
menace.
This figure is used where the speaker or writer employs the
language of menace.
Exouthenismos; or, Contempt
An Expression of Feeling by way of Contempt
Ex’-ou-then-is-mos. Greek, ἐξουθενισμός, scorn, contempt, or
disparagement.
The figure is used where a speaker or writer expresses contempt
of anything.
See 2Sa. 6:20. Job. 26:2. Jer. 22:23.
Maledictio; or, Imprecation
Expression of Feeling by way of Malediction or Execration
Mal’-e-dic’-ti-o. This is the Latin name, and means denunciation,
cursing, imprecation, or execration.

Hence the other Latin names, IMPRECATIO and EXECRATIO,
COMMINATIO. Also ARA, an altar, by which, and at which, oaths and
execrations were pronounced.

The Greeks called it APEUCHE, ap-eu-chee, from ἀπεύχομαι, to
pray a thing away, to pray that a thing may not be, and MISOS, mi-
sos, Greek µῖσος, hate, hatred, a hateful object or thing.

See 1Sa. 3:17. Rth. 1:17.

Psa. 109:6-19, where we have the /тргесайоп of David’s enemies for
evil to come upon him. See under Ellipsis.
Eze. 34:2.-“Woe be to the shepherds of Israel that do feed
themselves!”

A woe that comes upon all shepherds to-day who do not “feed the
flocks.”

See the whole chapter for the reasons for this solemn “Woe.”

A concordance will enable students to find the examples for
themselves, as they begin with “Woe,” such as those in Deu. 28:11-19.
Isa. 3:11. Jer. 48:46. Mat. 11:21.

Deasis; or, Adjuration
An Expression of Feeling by Oath or Asseveration
De’-a-sis, from Greek, δέησις, an entresting, obtestation, or calling to
witness.
The Latins called it OBSECRATIO, a beseeching, imploring, and
OBTESTATIO, an adjuring, or calling of God to witness.

The figure is used when the speaker or writer calls God or heaven
to witness to the truth of what is said, or to the facts which he states.
Apart from this calling to witness, the figure is of the nature of
Apostrophe (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

For examples, see Deu. 4:26; Deu. 30:19. 2Sa. 20:20. Job. 27:5.
Isa. 14:24; Isa. 62:8. Jer. 22:5; Jer. 27:5. Eze. 5:11; Eze. 33:11; Eze.
34:8. Act. 20:26.

It is exemplified in such phrases as: “Be it far from me”; “The Lord
do so unto me,” if | do or do not, etc.; “As the Lord liveth, and as thy
soul (thy own self) liveth.”

“Be it far from me” seems to mean “profane be it to me”: i.e., be it
as far from me as | could wish a profane thing to be.
Chleuasmos; or, Mocking
An Expression of Feeling by Mocking and Jeering
Chleu-as’-mos. Greek, Χλευασμµός, mocking, scoffing, sneering,
Jeering, from Χλεύη (chleuee), a jest, and χλευάζω (chleuaz6), to make
a jest of, scoff at.
EPLCERTOMESIS, Greek, ἐπικερτόμησις (Ep-i-ker-to-mee-sis), a
sneering or jeering.

MYCTERISMOS, Greek, µυκτηρισµός (muk-teer-is-mos), a turning
up of the nose at, sneering, or snuffing, from µυκτήρ (mukteer), the
nose, snout, nostrils.

The figure is used when the speaker or writer excites laughter by a
jeer or sneer; or excites ridicule by turning up the nose.

This is exactly what the Holy Spirit says the Pharisees did at the
Lord’s teaching in Luk. 16:14, and which led Him to rebuke them, and
put them to shame and silence by a parable similar to those they were
fond of using (See Lightfoot).

It is also what Jehovah will do, in return, to those who have thus
treated His Anointed.
Psa. 2:4.-“He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall
have them in derision.”
Pro. 1:24-33.-This is a solemn example of the figure.

See also Isa. 14:4; Isa. 14:12. Mic. 2:4.
6. As to Argumentation
We now come to the last part of the third great branch of Figures
involving Change, and to the last division of these, affecting the
application of words as to Argumentation.

It is neither the smallest division, nor is it the least in importance.

The application of words is so wide that it is difficult to separate
every Figure, and say that one belongs to a certain class; because
they frequently overlap, and belong to more than one class.

For example: we have put in this last section, Argumentation,
Erotesis, or Interrogating; but interrogation is not always used by way
of argument. In like manner we have included Dialogismus; but as it
represents two or more persons speaking, it might have been classed
under the use “as to Persons.”

So that, while each figure cannot be arbitrarily arranged under the
separate heads, we have placed them in the order which seemed to
be most proper to themselves, and most instructive and helpful to the
Bible student.

Under this last division, Argumentation, we have put no less than
nineteen figures; and first, as being one of the most important,
Erotesis.
Separate works have been published on this figure alone; and it
would form the subject of years of fruitful study by itself.
Erotesis; or, Interrogating
The Asking of Questions without waiting for the Answer
Er’-6-tee’-sis. Greek, ἐρώτησις, interrogation (from ἐρωτᾶν, to ask, to
enquire, to question: also to request).

This figure is used when a speaker or writer asks animated
questions, but not to obtain information. Instead of making a plain and
direct statement, he suddenly changes his style, and puts what he
was about to say or could otherwise have said, into the form of a
question, without waiting for an answer. Instead of declaring a
conviction, or expressing indignation, or vindicating authority, he puts
it in the form of a question without expecting any reply
The figure is so important that not only is it of frequent occurrence,
but it has several other names. It is called

PEUSIS (peu’-sis). Greek, πεῦσις, an asking, inquiry (from
πεύθοµα! (peuthomai): poetic present of πυνθάνοµαι (punthanomai),
to ask, inquire).

PYSMA (pys’-ma). Greek, πύσµα (pusma), what is learnt by the
interrogation (from the same root).

The Latins called it PERCONTATIO, an asking, inquiring after, and
INTERROGATIO, an interrogating.

While these names are all used of the act of interrogation, the
question itself is called EROTEMA (er’-o-tee-ma).

There are questions in the Hebrew which are not reproduced in
the English; and some are given below, though the labour of making
an exhaustive list would be too great.
But, counting the questions as they appear in the English Bible,
the importance of this figure Erotesis, or Interrogating, will be seen
when we state that, in the 1,189 chapters into which the Bible is
divided, there are no less than 3,298 questions. It is clear, therefore,
that it is impossible for us here to quote, or even to give, all the
references. Out of the 1,189 chapters of the Bible there are only 453
which are without a question.

These are divided as follows:-The 929 chapters of the Old
Testament contain 2,274 questions; while the 260 chapters of the New
Testament contain no less than 1,024. The average of questions in the
New Testament is much higher, per chapter, than that in the Old
Testament. For, while the average of the whole Bible is 2.75 ({6., 2%
questions for every chapter), the Old Testament average Isa. 2:3 (or
2&frac13;), and the New Testament nearly twice as much: viz., 3.9 (or
nearly 4).

This is how the Bible is affected as a whole. When we come to the
separate Books, we find that Job stands first with 329 questions; while
Jeremiah comes next with 195.

In the New Testament, the Gospel of Matthew stands first with 177
questions; then John’s Gospel with 167: etc.
When we come to separate chapters, Job. 38:1-41 stands first with
40 questions; then 2Sa. 19:1-43, with 22 questions. In the New
Testament, 1Co. 9:1-27 stands first, with 20 questions; followed
closely by Joh. 7:1-53, which has 19.

These facts are interesting, but are not important, as to the
chapters; inasmuch as these are only human in their origin, and are
often very incorrectly divided. As to the two Testaments and the
separate books, however, they serve to show us the relative
distribution of this beautiful figure Erotesis.

With regard to the questions themselves, their classification is
another matter altogether. Some are searching, causing the mind to
pause, wonder, and admire. Some are revelations of the attributes of
God, and of the depravity of man. The very first Divine question of the
Old Testament reveals the condition of man by nature: “WHERE ART
THOU?” It comes from God to the sinner, now “far off’ (Eph. 2:13),
from God. While the first question in the New Testament reveals the
effect of this on the sinner’s heart, causing him to turn to that Saviour
whom the New Testament reveals, and cry, “WHERE IS HE?”

The questions of the Bible, whether God addresses them to man;
or whether man turns to God; or whether he questions himself; contain
a mine of truth and teaching; while the heart is awakened, and the
attention is aroused to seek out the answer, which is ever fraught with
deep and blessed instruction.

We have only to reflect on the interesting fact that the figures used
most frequently by the Lord Jesus are Interrogation and Implication
(Erotesis and Hypocatastasis). The very first thing that is mentioned
concerning Him as the first act of His life, is that He was found “in the
temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and
asking them questions” (Luk. 2:46).

Doubtless He could teach them much that would astound them, by
the use of this Figure, in spite of the disparity of age. For a child of
twelve years of age may question, when he may not teach; and yet, by
this simple means, teach more effectively than the greatest of
teachers. No wonder that “all that heard him were astonished.”

All writers and speakers have always drawn largely on this Figure,
and many interesting examples might be given from general literature.
Science lifts its head against the word of God as though all were
uncertainty outside of its own proud boastings. And yet a few
questions soon prick and burst the bubble.

Scientia means real or intuitive knowledge, as does its Greek
representative γνῶσις (gndésis). (Hence our words “know” and
“knowledge”). Neither of these words means acquired knowledge. But
beyond a very few facts and the small circle of mathematical
demonstrations: How little is really known! What is matter? What is
mind? What is life? What is light? What is electricity? What is
gravitation? or, Is there any such thing at all? What is the history of our
own earth geologically? Who can tell us this? So long ago as 1806,
the French Institute tabulated more than eighty geological theories,
and how many have there been since then?

We merely give this as illustrating how we may ourselves, by a few
questions, dispose of the giants who would demolish us and rob us of
the Inspired Word of God, which comes to us in all its blessed and
Divine certainty.

We turn, then, to its questions; and our best course will be to
indicate certain divisions into which they may be classified; so that the
Bible-searching student may have somewhere to place the questions,
as he seeks them out and finds them.
Several classifications have been attempted by various writers
from Glassius downwards, and probably none is either correct or
complete. The subject is too large, and its divisions over-lap too much,
to allow of too minute an arrangement.

We might classify them under their subject matter, or under the
words with which they commence (“Who,” “How,” “Why,” “Whether,”
etc.).

If we used both these divisions they would get mixed up, and
many questions would appear in each. So that we present the
following, as embracing practically all the divisions into which the
questions of the Bible may be classified.

1. In positive affirmation.

2. In negative affirmation.

3. In affirmative negation.

4. In demonstration.

5. In wonder and admiration.

6. In rapture.
7. In wishes.

8. In refusals and denials.

9. In doubts.

10. In admonition.

11. In expostulation.

12. In prohibition or dissuasion.
13. In pity and commiseration.
14. In disparagement.

15. In reproaches.

16. In lamentation.

17. In indignation.

18. In absurdities and impossibilities.
19. Double questions.
1. т Positive Affirmation
Where the answer must be in the affirmative.

“Wilt not thou deliver my feet from falling?” (Psa. 56:13 (14)). [Yes,
thou wilt]. Here the present comes in between the past (“thou hast
delivered my soul from death”) and the future (“that | may walk before
God in the light of the living.”

“These two things are come unto thee; who shall be sorry for
thee? [Every one]. Desolation and destruction, and the famine, and
the sword: by whom shall | comfort thee?” (Isa. 51:19): ie., by every
one.

“Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit, and will
not straightway pull him out on the sabbath day?” (Luk. 14:5). [No
one].

2. In Negative Affirmation
Where the question is put in the negative form, and the answer must
be in the affirmative, and very emphatically so; the truth being thus
much more forcibly brought out by the question than by a mere cold
and formal statement of the fact.
“Is not the whole land before thee?” (Gen. 13:9): i.e., yes, it is.
“Do not thy brethren feed in Shechem?” (Gen. 37:13). [Yes, they
do.] Here, in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ,
the words “the flock” are inserted (in the latter not in italics). This is
because of the words “their father’s flock,” which occur in the previous
verse. But this is one of the fifteen dotted words in the Hebrew Text,
which means that they had got into the Text at a very early date; and
the scribes, not liking actually to remove them from the Text, put a row
of small dots along the top to show that the word or words ought not to
be in the Text, though they had not been taken out. As the words “the
flock” are dotted in the Hebrew, verse 12, means that they had gone to
feed themselves in Shechem! (Compare Eze. 34:2; Eze. 34:8; Eze.
34:10, and Isa. 56:11-12).

“Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother, whom | know to be eloquent?”
(Exo. 4:14): ie., | know that he is so.

“Are they not on the other side Jordan?” etc. (Deu. 11:30).

“Shall | not seek rest for thee?” etc. (Rth. 3:1).

“Is it not | that commanded the people to be numbered?” (1Ch.
21:17; compare 2Sa. 24:17).
“Is there not a warfare to man upon the earth?” (Job. 7:1, R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ); marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] , a
time of service. (See the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin).

“Do not all go to one place?” (i.e., to Sheol, or the grave) (Ecc.
6:6). The answer is: Yes, they do!

“Is my hand shortened at all, that it cannot redeem? or have | no
power to deliver?” (Isa. 50:2). Here, we have a combined affirmative
and negative:-No; my hand is not shortened. | can redeem; and, |
have power to deliver. Compare 59:1.

“Do not | fill heaven and earth? saith the Lord” (Jer. 23:24). Yes.
The previous question is positive.

“Is not the meat cut off before our eyes?” (Joe. 1:16).

“Is it not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith the Lord” (Amo.
2:11).

“Shall not the day of the Lord be darkness, and not light?” (Amo.
5:20). See under Metonymy and Pleonasm.

“Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name
have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works?”
(Mat. 7:22). See under Epizeuxis.

“Do ye not therefore err, because ye know not the Scriptures,
neither the power of God?” (Mar. 12:24). Here, the “not” is µή (mee)
which denies subjectively, and implies not merely negative ignorance,
but positive unwillingness to know the Scriptures. See Mat. 22:29.

“The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of
the blood of Christ?” (1Co. 10:16). Yes, it is the fellowship of the
members of the one Body in partaking of all the merits of Christ’s
blood. “The bread which we break, is it not the communion (or
fellowship) of the Body of Christ?”

The next verse makes it perfectly clear that the Body here
mentioned is Christ Mystical, because the Holy Spirit goes on to give
the reason-“For we being many are one bread, and, one Body.” See
1Co. 12:12.

“Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them
who shall be heirs of salvation?” (Heb. 1:14).

So Oba. 1:5; Oba. 1:8. Jon. 4:11. Joh. 4:35; Joh. 6:70; Joh. 11:9.
Sometimes the negative is omitted by Ellipsis (q.v. [Note: Which зее.]
).
2Sa. 15:27 -“The king said also unto Zadok the priest, Art not thou а
seer?”
Here the negative is supplied in italics. But not in
Eze. 8:6.-“Son of man, seest thou what they do?”: i.e., seest thou not?
So 1Sa. 2:27, and especially Jer. 31:20, where it should be “/s not
Ephraim my dear son? /s he not a pleasant child?” as is clear from
what follows.

3. In Affirmative Negation
This is a very important division, because some of the weightiest
truths are conveyed by this form of question: i.e., where the question
is put in the affirmative, and the answer to be supplied by the mind is a
very emphatic negative.

“Is anything too hard for the Lord?” (Gen. 18:14). No! there is
nothing too hard for Him, for compare Jer. 32:17. Zec. 8:6. Mat. 3:9;
Mat. 19:26. Luk. 1:37.

“Shall | hide from Abraham that thing which | do?” (Gen. 18:17).

“How can | dispossess them?” (Deu. 7:17): i.e., | cannot do it.

“Who is like unto thee?” is the cry of all the “poor and needy” ones
whom Jehovah has delivered. (Psa. 35:10). See Exo. 15:11. Deu.
33:26-27. 1Sa. 2:2. Psa. 71:19; Psa. 73:25; Psa. 89:6 (7); 113:5.

“Shall they escape by iniquity?” (Psa. 56:7 (8)). No, they shall not.
“Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand up
for me against the workers of iniquity?” (Psa. 94:16): i.e., there is no
one to do this but God; as verse 17 clearly shows.

“Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? who can show forth all
his praise?” (Psa. 106:2). The answer is that no one can.

Psa. 9:14 (15) does not conflict with this: for there it is a prayer for
Jehovah's mercy, so that he “may show forth” all His praise. Compare
Psa. 40:5 (6); 139:17, 18.

Ecc. 3:21.-Here, we must take the question “who know ...
whether,” etc., as requiring a negative answer. See under Appendix E.

“Can any hide himself in secret places that | shall not see him?
saith the Lord” (Jer. 23:24). No, none can so hide. The following
question is negative.

“How shall then his kingdom stand?” (Mat. 12:26): ie., it is
impossible.

“Which of you convicteth me of sin?” (Joh. 8:46). ἐλέγχω
(elengcho) does not mean to convince, but to convict by bringing in
guilty, lay bare, expose. No one could ever bring Christ in guilty of sin.
This explains Joh. 16:8. See Prosapodosis.

“What if some did not believe? Shall their unbelief make the faith
of God without effect?” (Rom. 3:3). See under Tapeinosis.

“If God be for us, who can be against us?”

“Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect?”

“Who is he that condemneth?”

“Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?” (Rom. 8:31-35).
See under Epistrophe, Anaphora, Ellipsis, which are all employed in
these verses.

“Who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his
counsellor? Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be
recompensed unto him again?” (Rom. 11:34-35).

“Who goeth a warfare any time at his own charges?” etc. (1Co.
9:7).

“Unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son?”
(Heb. 1:5): /е., to none of them, but to the Son only. These words,
“Thou art my Son,” appear to be the Divine formula for the anointing of
Christ: Mat. 3:17, for His office of prophet; Mat. 17:5, for His office of
priest, * [Note: See Christ’s Prophetic Teaching, by the same author
and publisher.] and Psa. 2:7 (cf. Heb. 1:5), for His office of king.

“To which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand,
until | make thine enemies thy footstool?” (Heb. 1:13), ie., He never
said this to any created angelic being.

See, for other instances, Gen. 50:19. 1Sa. 2:25. Job. 40:2, etc.
Isa. 40:13-14. Joe. 1:2, etc., and many other places.

Sometimes the negative in the answer is not absolute, but only

relative.

“Who knoweth the power of thine anger?” (Psa. 90:11). Not every
one. See verses 13 and 16.

See also under Metonymy.
“Who can find a virtuous woman?” (Pro. 31:10): /е., not that there
are absolutely none, but that they are relatively few. See the structure
under Acrostichion.

“Who hath believed our report?” (Isa. 53:1). Not, no one, but those
to whom it is given-the Remnant. See under Hypotyposis and
Metonymy.

“Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? prudent, and
he shall know them?” (Hos. 14:9 (10)): .e., not that no one is wise, but
that such are relatively few.

4. In Demonstration
Sometimes a question is used to make an affirmation as to a certain
subject, demonstrating a fact or proving a truth.

“What man is he that feareth the Lord?” (Psa. 25:12). This is to call
attention to the demonstration in the next verse.

“Son of man, seest thou [ποῇ what they do?” (Eze. 8:6). We have
already had this trader a negative affirmation, but its object was to say,
Behold, thou art a witness of their abominable idolatry.
“What went ye out into the wilderness to see?” This question is
three times repeated: to demonstrate to the People the greatness of
John the Baptist (Mat. 11:7-9).

So Psa. 34:12-13 (13, 14). Jer. 9:12 (11). Hos. 14:9 (10) might also
be put under this head. Pro. 22:29; Pro. 29:20.

5. In Wonder and Admirationg
“Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old? And shall
Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?” (Gen. 17:17), in wonder at the
Divine power. See Rom. 4:17-21. Abraham laughed for joy, for he fell
upon his face in reverence (Joh. 8:56. Gen. 21:8). Sarah laughed from
incredulity (18:12). Contrast Martha and Mary in Joh. 11:21 and Joh.
11:32. Mary “fell down at his feet.”

“How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son?” (Gen. 27:20).

“What is this that God hath done unto us?” (Gen. 42:28).

“How good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in
unity!” (Psa. 133:1). See under Asterismos.

“Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from
Bozrah?” (Isa. 43:1-2). See under Prosopopeoeia.

This refers not to Christ’s work of redemption for His People, but to
the day of His vengeance and judgment on His enemies; as the
context clearly shows.

“How weak is thine heart, saith the Lord God (Adonai Jehovah)?”
(Eze. 16:30).

“How soon is the fig-tree withered away?” (Mat. 21:20). Or better-
How can the fig-tree have withered by this time?

So also Mar. 6:37.

See also 1Sa. 9:21. Hab. 3:8.

6. In Rapture or Exultation
“Oh how great is thy goodness!” (Psa. 31:19 (20)).

“How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, О God (El)! How
great is the sum of them!” (Psa. 139:17). See Anthropopatheia.

“What is man, that thou art mindful of him?” (Psa. 8:4 (5); 144:3.
Job. 7:17. Heb. 2:6), to magnify the grace of God in lifting up such an
one from the dunghill to make him inherit the throne of glory (1Sa.
2:8). See Psa. 113:7-8.

“Who am I, O Lord God (Adoani Jehovah)?” (2Sa. 7:18).

It was the revelation of the greatness of God’s grace that enabled
David thus to take the place of a true worshipper. In verse 1, David
“sat in his house,” and before himself; then his thought was to build a
house for God; but, when he learnt that God was going to build him a
house, then he went in, and “sat before the Lord.”
“Is this the manner of man, O Lord God (Adonai Jehovah)?” (2Sa.
7:19). The margin of the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
reads “Is this the law of man, О Lord God,” and the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin
says, “Heb. /aw.” But idiomatically it means, “Is this the law for
humanity?”: i.e., the promise to David embraced blessing for the
whole of humanity, and David by faith saw it, and exulted in it.

7. In Wishes
“Who will give me drink of the water of the well of Bethlehem, which is
by the gate?” (2Sa. 23:15, Heb.). See under Conismos.

“Whom shall | send, and who will go for us?” (Isa. 6:8).

“Who shall deliver me from this body of death?” (Rom. 7:24 (marg.
{Note: arg. Margin.] )). See under Ecphonesis, Metonymy, Hypallage,
and Ellipsis. By these figures is this height of Christian experience
emphasised: i.e., the knowledge of the fact as to what God had done
with “sins” (Rom. 1:16-32; Rom. 2:1-29; Rom. 3:1-31; Rom. 4:1-25;
Rom. 5:1-11), and also as to what He had done with “sin” (5:12-8:39);
so that, although the fruits of the old tree are still seen and mourned
over, there is the blessed knowledge that God reckons it as dead-as
having died with Christ, and that we are to reckon the same.

8. In Refusals and Denials
“How shall | curse, whom God (EL) hath not cursed? or how shall |
defy, whom the Lord (Jehovah) hath not defied?” (Num. 23:8): i.e., |
neither can nor dare do so.

“What have | to do with thee?” (Joh. 2:4). See under Idiom. Also
Jdg. 11:12. 2Sa. 16:10. 1Ki. 17:18. 2Ki. 3:13. Mat. 8:29. Mar. 5:7. Luk.
8:28.

9. In Doubts
“Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After | am waxen old
shall | have pleasure?” (Gen. 18:12). See above.

“O Ephraim, what shall | do unto thee? O Judah, what shall | do
unto thee?” (Hos. 6:4). See under Aporia. So Hos. 11:8.

“Wherewith shall | come before the Lord, and bow myself before
the high God?” (Mic. 7:6).
“But the righteousness which is of faith, speaketh on this wise, Say
not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven?” (Rom. 10:6-7). See
under Epitrechon. These doubts, raised by self-righteousness, are
seen to be removed only by the imputation of a Divine righteousness.

10. In Admonition
“Hearest thou not, my daughter?” (Rth. 2:8): ie., diligently hearken.
“Go not to glean in another field.”

“Who hath warned you (with the emphasis on the “you”) to flee

from the wrath to come?” (Mat. 3:7).

11. In Expostulation
“Where art thou?” (Gen. 3:9). To show Adam where he really was, and
the condition into which he had fallen, having lost fellowship and
communion with God.

“What is this that thou hast done unto me?” etc. (Gen. 12:18-19).

“What is that betwixt me and thee?” (Gen. 23:15).
“Who am | that | should go into Pharaoh?” (Exo. 3:11).

“What could have been done more to my vineyard, that | have not
done in it? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes,
brought it forth wild grapes?” (Isa. 5:4).

“Wherefore, have we fasted, say they, and thou seest not?
wherefore have we afflicted our soul, and thou takest no knowledge?”
(Isa. 58:3).

So Gen. 31:26-27; Gen. 44:4; Gen. 44:15. Psa. 11:1; Psa. 50:16
(see Apodioxis). Eze. 12:22; Eze. 18:1 (2). Dan. 3:14; and many
examples in the prophecy of Malachi.

12. In Prohibitions
“Why should | be deprived also of you both in one day?” (Gen. 27:45).

“Why should | kill thee?” (1Sa. 19:17): i.e., let me not have to kill
thee.

“Wherefore should the heathen say,” etc.? (Psa. 79:10): i.e., let not
the heathen say.
“Wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the
work of thine hands?” (Ecc. 5:6).

“Why shouldest thou die before thy time?” (Ecc. 7:17).

“Why will ye die, thou and thy people, by the sword?” (Jer. 27:13).
So verse 17, “Wherefore should this city be laid waste?” i.e., Do not
die. Do not let this city be laid waste.

“Why will ye die, О house of Israel?” (Eze. 33:11): /е., Turn from
your ways, so that ye die not. See under Epizeuxis and Obtestatio.

So 2Sa. 2:22. 2Ch. 25:16. Dan. 1:10, etc.

13. In Pity and Commiseration

“How doth the city sit solitary, that was full of people?” (Lam. 1:1; see
2:1, etc.). See under Antithesis and Ellipsis.

“How often would | have gathered thy children, etc.?” (Mat. 23:37).

There are many examples in the Book of Lamentations.
14. In Disparagements
“Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils: for wherein is he
to be accounted of?” (Isa. 2:22).
“What cities are these which thou hast given me, my brother?”
(Ki. 9:13).
15. In Reproaches
“When this people, or the prophet, or a priest, shall ask thee, saying,
What is the burden of the Lord? thou shalt then say unto them, What
burden? | will even forsake you, saith the Lord” (Jer. 23:33. So Jer.
23:35-36).
“What is truth?” (Joh. 18:38). See /rony.
16. In Lamentation
“Lord, how are they increased that trouble me!” (Psa. 3:1 (2)): i.e., how
come mine enemies to be so many?
“Why hast thou forsaken me?” (Psa. 22:1 (2)).
“Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more?
Is his mercy clean gone for ever? Doth his promise fail for evermore?
Hath God forgotten to be gracious? Hath he in anger shut up his
tender mercies?” (Psa. 77:7-9 (8-10)). These lamentations arise from
self-occupation (see verses 1-6). It is our natural “infirmity” (verse 10),
that leads us into it. The only remedy is to cease from self-occupation,
and look away from ourselves to God (verses 10-20): then happiness
and praise take the place of lamentation.

Compare Psa. 73:1-28; where the same experience is gone
through, only then the trouble arises from looking around instead of
looking within. But the remedy for this “foolishness” (verse 22) is the
same as for the “infirmity”: viz., looking up (verses 17 and 23-28).

The lesson from questions in these two Psalms (Ixxvii. and Ixxiii.)
is this. If we want to be miserable, all we have to do is to look within. If
we want to be distracted, all we have to do is to look around. But if we
would be happy, we must look up, away from ourselves and others, to
God.* [Note: See Things to Come for Oct., 1899.]

“How is the faithful city become an harlot!” (Isa. 1:21). Or, “How is
it that the loyal city has turned harlot?” See under Synecdoche and
Antithesis.
“Shall the women eat their fruit, and children of a span long? Shall
the priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the Lord?”
(Lam. 2:20).

17. In Indignation
“Why do the heathen rage? and [why do] the people imagine a vain
thing?” (Psa. 2:1).

“How long shall | be with you? How long shall | suffer you?” (Mat.
17:17). See Ecphonesis.

18. In Absurdities and Impossibilities
“Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean?” (Job. 14:4).

“Shall mortal man be more just than God? or shall a man be more
pure than His Maker?” (Job. 4:17).

“Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots? then
may ye also do good, that are accustomed to do evil” (Jer. 13:23). See
Paroemia.
“How can a man be born when he is old?” etc. (Joh. 3:4).
“How can this man give us his flesh to eat?” (Joh. 6:52). It was “a
hard saying” (verse 60), and hence they thought it absurd.
“Have any of the elders or of the Pharisees believed on him?”
(Joh. 7:48). This question forms, from that day to this, the excuse for
not acknowledging the claims of God or His Truth, unless the great
and the influential of the Church receive them. It is the putting of man
before God, instead of studying to show ourselves approved only to
God.

“Who is this Son of man?” (Joh. 12:34). This was the expression of
the absurdity on the part of Christ's enemies.

19. Double Questions
Sometimes double questions are employed, repeating the same
question in different words so as to express the fact more
emphatically.

See Job. 4:17; Job. 6:5, etc.; 8:3; 10:4, etc.; 11:2, 7; 22:3. Isa.
10:15. Jer. 5:9; Jer. 5:29.
Dialogismos; or, Dialogue
Dj-al-o-gis-mos. Greek, διαλογισµός, conversation, arguing, from
διαλογίζεσθαι (dialogizesthai), to converse, argue.

This figure is used when we represent one or more persons as
speaking about a thing, instead of saying it ourselves: Dialogue.

The persons speak in a manner suitable to their character or
condition.

When there are not two persons represented, but the objecting
and answering is done by the one speaker, the figure is called
LOGISMUS, and what is stated is said to be in dialogismo, or in
logismo.

Sometimes the speaker brings forward another as speaking, and
uses his words, adapting them to the object in view.

The Latins called this figure SERMOCINATIO, which means the
same thing.

Isa. 14:16-19.-“They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and
consider thee, saying,
Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake
kingdoms? etc.,
But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch,” etc.
Isa. 63:1-6.-“Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments
from Bozrah? This that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the
greatness of his strength?
| that speak in righteousness, mighty to save.
Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that
treadeth in the winefat?
| have trodden the winepress alone; and of the people there
was none with me; for | will tread them in mine anger, and
trample them in my fury; and their blood shall be sprinkled
upon my garments, and | will stain all my raiment. For the day
of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is
come.” etc.
Thus, vividly and powerfully, is the day of vengeance, and of
judgment, described. And yet there are persons who take this
passage as treating of Christ’s past work of grace on Calvary!
Mic. 2:4.-“In that day shall one take up a parable against you, and
lament with a doleful lamentation, and say, We be utterly spoiled:” etc.
(See under Polyptoton).

Zec. 8:20-23.-It shall yet come to pass that there shall come people,
and the inhabitants of many cities: And the inhabitants of one city shall
go to another, saying,

Let us go speedily to pray before the Lord, and to seek the

Lord of hosts: | will go also.

Yea, many people and strong nations shall come,” etc. See
Polyptoton.

Some think that Paul, when he says, in
1Co. 9:24, “So run, that ye may obtain,” does not directly exhort the
Corinthians himself; but by a Sermocinatio, brings forward and uses
that incitement which the trainers and spectators in the public contests
usually employed.

Other examples may be found under Antimetathesis, and in Mat.
25:37-39. Luk. 13:6-9; Luk. 15:20-32.
Dianeea; or, Animated Dialogue
Di’-a-noe’-a. Greek, διάνοια, a revolving in the mind. This Figure is
employed when the speaker uses animated questions and answers in
developing an argument.
The Latins called it SUBJECTIO, a substituting, RESPONSIO, a
responding.

It is a form of Dialogismos (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).

Affirmatio; or, Affirmation
Spontaneous Affirmation

Affirmation becomes a Figure when it is used otherwise than in
answer to a question; or, instead of a bare statement of the fact.

It emphasizes the words thus to affirm what no one has disputed.

The Apostle uses it in Php. 1:18, “What then? notwithstanding,
every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, Christ is preached; and |
therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.”
Negatio; or, Negation
Spontaneous Negation

Negation is used in a similar way as a Figure, when it is a denying of
that which has not been affirmed: i.e., when, instead of merely making
a statement, it is put in the form of a denial.

Paul uses it in Gal. 2:5, “To whom we gave place by subjection,
no, not for an hour.” (See Synecdoche).

When the negation is very important, the negative is repeated, or
combined with another negative to increase its emphasis. See
Repeated Negation.
Accismus; or, Apparent Refusal
Ac-cis’-mus, a cutting all but through, from the Latin, accido. This
Figure is so named because it is an apparent or assumed refusal.

Mat. 15:22-26.-When the woman of Canaan cried “Have mercy on
me, O Lord, thou Son of David,” the Lord did not intend to reject her:
but, having no claim (as a Gentile) on Christ as the “Son of David,” He
uses the figure Accismus, and apparently refuses her request by
saying, “I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”

“Then came she and worshipped him, saying, Lord help me.” But
again, there was no confession as to the “me.” It was not like the
Publican, “God be merciful to me-a sinner.” It might have been a self-
righteous “me.”

So the Lord again uses the Figure Accismus, but He now
combines it with Hypocatastasis; and says:

“It is not meet to take the children’s bread, and to cast it to

dogs.”

Now came the confession-she saw the point. She admitted the fact
as to her condition as “a dog of the Gentiles,” and said, “Truth, Lord:”
and received the blessing which had been determined for her.
Mat. 21:29 is sometimes given as an example; but this was a real
refusal, altered by after repentance.
tiologia; or, Cause Shown
The rendering a Reason for what is said or done
Ae -ti-o-log‘-ia (Aetiology). Greek Αἰτιολογία, rendering a reason, from
aitia (aitia), a cause, and λόγος (logos), a description.

The figure is used when, either directly or indirectly, the speaker or
writer renders a reason for what he thinks, says, or does.

The figure was also called APODEIXIS (Ap-o-deix’-is). Greek,
ἀπόδειξις, full demonstration, from ἀποδεικνύναι (apodeiknunai), to
point out, demonstrate.

The Latins called it CAUS. REDDITIO: rendering a reason, or
showing the cause.
Rom. 1:13.-Νονν | would not have you ignorant, brethren, that
oftentimes | purposed to come unto you, (but was let hitherto,) that |
might have some fruit among you also, even as among other
Gentiles.”

Verses 15, 16: “l am ready to preach the Gospel to you that are at
Rome also. For | am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ; for it is the
power of God unto salvation.”

So Rom. 3:20; Rom. 4:14-15, and all other passages where the
word “For” points out the reason, or “Therefore” shows the cause.

These are too numerous to be quoted; but their significance
should always be noted.

Anteisagoge; or, Counter-Question
The Answering of one Question by asking another
An-teis’-a-g6‘-gee. Greek, ἀντεισαγωγή, a bringing in instead; from
ἀντί (anti), against or instead; sic (eis), in; ἄγειν (agein), to lead or
bring.

The figure is so called, because a question is answered by asking
another.

It is called also ANTICATALLAXIS (an -ti-cat’-al-lax’-is). Greek,
ἀντικατάλλαξις, a setting off or balancing of one thing against another
(as in trade).

The Greeks called it also ANTHUPOPHORA (an’-thu-poph -o-ra).
Greek, ἀνθυποφορά, a reply to an objection; from avti (anti), against,
ὑπτό (hupo), φέρειν (pherein), to bring.

Hence the Latin names of the Figure: COMPENSATIO,
compensation, and CONTRARIA ILLATIO, a bringing in against.

Jdg. 14:8.-The answer to Samson’s “riddle” is given in the form of a
question, and is thus an Anteisagoge. See under Enigma.

A beautiful example is furnished in
Mat. 21:23-25; where, when the chief priests and elders asked Christ
by what authority He acted; He said, “I also will ask you one thing,
which if ye tell me, | in like wise will tell you by what authority | do
these things.” He then goes on, in verse 25, to answer the question by
asking another.

In the answer of His enemies we have the Figure Aporia (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).
Rom. 9:19-20.-“Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find
fault? For who hath resisted his will?”

“Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God?” See
below, under Prolepsis.

Antistrophe; or, Retort
A turning the Words of a Speaker against himself

An-tis-tro-phee. Greek, ἀντιστροφή, a turning about, from avti (anti),
against, and στρέφω (strepho), to turn.
The figure is so called because the words of a speaker are turned
against himself in Retort.

When the retort is violent, it is called BION (Bi-ae-on), Greek,
Βίαιον, forcible, violent, compulsory.

Hence the Latin, VIOLENTUM, violent, and INVERSIO, inversion,
a turning against.
Mat. 15:26-27.-The woman of Canaan used this figure in her reply to
Christ. He had said “It is not meet to take the children’s bread, and to
cast it to dogs.” And she said, “Truth, Lord; yet the dogs eat of the
crumbs which fall from their master’s table,” and thus turned His words
against Himself.
2Co. 11:22.-“Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I.
Are they the seed of Abraham? so am I.” See also under Epiphoza.

When the words thus turned against the speaker are an
accusation, then the figure is called
Anticategoria; or, Tu Quoque
The use of a Counter-Charge, or Recrimination
An‘-ti-cat’-ee-gor’-i-a. Greek, ἀντικατηγορία, a counter-charge: from
ἀντί (anti), against, and κατηγορέω, to speak against: hence, to
recriminate, to accuse in turn.

The figure is used when we retort upon another the very
insinuation or accusation which he has made against us. It differs from
Antistrophe (see above); in that it has to do, not with any general kind
of words, but with a particular accusation.

It is what the Latins called a TU QUOQUE; or, ACCUSATIO
ADVERSA, an opposite accusation, or an accusation turned against
another; or, TRANSLATIO IN ADVERSARIUM, a transferring against
an adversary.

Eze. 18:25.-“Yet ye say, The way of the Lord is not equal. Hear now, О
house of Israel; Is not my way equal? are not your ways unequal?” So
verse 29, and 33:17.

This would be Anteisagoge, were it a simple question instead of an

accusation.
Metastasis; or, Counter-Blame
A transferring of the Blame from one’s self to another
Me-tas’-ta-sis. Greek, µετάστασις, from µετά (meta), beyond, over,
and στάσις, a standing or placing (from ἱστάναι (histanai), to put or
place).
Hence, Metastasis means a placing beyond: {6., a transferring.

Hence called by the Latins TRANSLATIO, a translating.

The Figure is so called because it is a transferring of blame from
one person or thing to another.

Elijah used the figure in his answer to Ahab in
1К!. 18:17-18.-“When Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art
thou he that troubleth Israel? And he answered, | have not troubled
Israel; but thou, and thy father’s house,” etc.
2Ki. 9:19.-“Is it peace?... What hast thou to do with peace?” This is
also the Figure Anteisagoge (q.v. [Νοίε: Which see.] ).
Rom. 7:14.-“We know that the law is spiritual: but | am carnal, sold
under sin.”
Anaccenosis; or, Common Cause
An Appeal to others as having interests in Common
An‘-a-coe-né-sis. Greek, ἀνακοίΐνωσις (anakoinosis), from ανακοινοῦν
(anakoinoun), to communicate; from ava (ana), up, and κοινοῦν
(koinoun), to make common (from κοινός, koinos, common).

A Figure by which a speaker appeals to his opponents for their
opinion, as having a common interest in the matter in question: as, “If
the case were yours, how would you act?” or “What do you think about
it?” or “What would you say?”

The Greeks also called it SYMBOULESIS (sym-boul-ee’-sis,
συµβόυλησις, a counselling together: from σύν (sun or syn), together,
and βουλή, a counselling. Hence, βουλεύμεσθαι (bouleuesthai), to
deliberate.

The Latins called it COMMUNICATIO, a making common.

The figure is an appeal to the feelings or opinions of others, which
they have in common with ourselves, and to which we submit the
matter.

When this is done by way of question, it is a form of Erotesis (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).

Isa. 5:3-4.-“Апа now, О inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah,
judge, | pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard. What could | have
done more to my vineyard, that | have not done in it?” etc.

Mal. 1:6.-“If then | be a father, where is mine honour? and if | be a
master, where is my fear? saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests,
that despise my name.”

Luk. 11:19.-“If | by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons
cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges.”

Act. 4:19.-“But Peter and John answered and said unto them,
Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than
unto God, judge ye.”

1Со. 4:21.-“What will ye? Shall | come unto you with a rod, or in love,
and in the spirit of meekness?”

1Co. 10:15.-“I speak as to wise men; judge ye what | say.”

1Со. 11:13-14.-“Judge in yourselves: is it comely that a woman pray
unto God uncovered? Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a
man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?”

Gal. 4:21.-“Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear
the law?”

See also Jer. 23:23. Gal. 3:1-2; Gal. 3:5, etc.

Synchoresis; or, Concession
Making a Concession of one Point to gain another

Syn’-ché-ree’-sis. Greek, συλχώρησις, concession, acquiescence,
consenting, from συγχωρέω (synchore6d), to come together, agree.

The figure is used when we make a concession of one point in
order to gain another. In this case the concession or admission is
made, and may be rightly made, in order to gain a point.

It thus differs from Epitrope (see below), where we admit
something that is wrong in itself for the sake of argument.

Synchoresis, therefore, is concession, while Epitrope is admission
or surrender.
The Latins called it CONCESSIO, concession, while the Greeks
had another name for it, EPICHORESIS (Ep~-i-ché-ree~-sis), an
agreement upon a point.
Jer. 12:1.-“Righteous art thou, О Lord, when | plead with thee: yet let
me talk (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] reason the case) with thee of thy
judgments: Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper? wherefore
are all they happy that deal very treacherously?”

Hab. 1:13.-“Thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil, and canst not
look on iniquity; wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal
treacherously, and holdest thy tongue when the wicked devoureth the
man that is more righteous than he?” etc.

Rom. 2:17-20.-All these claims of the Jew are admitted for the sake of
argument, in order to emphasize the weighty reproof in verse 21,
“Thou therefore, which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself?”
etc., to the end of verse 23.

1Co. 4:8.-He concedes the point as to their desire to reign, but
ironically adds, “I would to God ye did reign, that we also might reign
with you.”

2Co. 10:1.-He concedes the point that he was base among them: but
verses 2 and 11 show that he does so only to gain another point. So in
12:16.

Gal. 4:15.-The apostle grants the fact, which was indisputable, as to
the great friendship and love that existed between himself and the
Galatian saints; in order to gain another point, and add to his
argument, when he asks in the next verse, “Am | therefore become
your enemy because | tell you the truth?”
Jam. 2:19.-“Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well: the
devils also believe, and tremble.”
Epitrope; or, Admission

Admission of Wrong in order to gain what is Right
E-pit’-ro-pee. Greek, ἐπιτροπή, reference, arbitration, from ἐπιτρέπειν,
to turn over, surrender, (from ἐτή (epi), upon, and τρέπειν (trepein), to
turn).

The Figure is used when we surrender a point which we feel to be
wrong, but we admit it for the sake of argument. In Synchoresis (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ), we concede what is right in itself; but, in
Epitrope, we admit what is wrong, giving way to the feelings or
unreasonableness of another, in order that we may more effectually
carry our point.

The Latins called it PERMISSIO, a giving up, unconditional
surrender.

The figure sometimes approaches to /rony (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]
); when “what is admitted” is not really granted, but only apparently so
for argument’s sake.
1К!. 22:15.-“Со, and prosper: for the Lord shall deliver it into the hand
of the king.” Micaiah (by Epitrope and Irony) admitted what was in
Jehoshaphat’s heart, and thus exposed and condemned it.
Ecc. 11:9.-“Rejoice, О young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart
cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine
heart, and in the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these
things God will bring thee into judgment.”
Jer. 2:28.-“But where are thy gods that thou hast made thee?” Here,
the admission as to these gods is made; but only for the sake of
exposing, by /гопу, the fact that they were no gods. So Jer. 7:21, and
Eze. 20:39.
Amo. 4:4-5.-See under /гопу.
Mat. 23:32.-‘Fill ye up then the measure of your fathers.” Christ was
not inciting to murders and martyrdoms; but, using the figure Epitrope,
He granted their position, and ironically told them to act accordingly.
Joh. 13:27.-“That thou doest, do quickly.” The Lord is not sanctioning
the evil, but permitting it.

Rom. 11:19-20.-“Thou (Gentile, verse 13) wilt say then, The branches
were broken off, that | might be grafted in. Well; because of unbelief
they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not highminded,
but fear.”
Here, it is not Synchoresis, i.e., a concession of what is right, but
an admission of what is wrong, for the sake of argument. Indeed, it is
a mixture of the two, for there are two propositions. “The branches
were broken off’: i.e., the Jews were cast off for a time (though not
cast away, verse 1), that is true. That point is conceded; but “that |
might be grafted in’? No! that was not the object: that is what you
Gentiles will say, “Thou wilt say.” It is not what the Holy Spirit says.
That was not the cause why the Jews were broken off. It was
“because of unbelief”! That was the true reason!

Paromologia; or, Confession
A Concession in Argument to gain Favour
Par-o-mo-log’-i-a. Greek, παροµολογία, confession, from παρά (para),
by, or near, and ὁμολογεῖν (homologein), to confess.

This Figure is used when we acknowledge some fault or wrong

with a view to gain favour. Hence the Latins called it CONFESSIO,
confession, acknowledgment.
Protherapeia; or, Conciliation
The securing of Indulgence for what is about to be said
Pro-ther-a-pei-a. Greek, προθεραπεία, previous care or treatment,
from πρό (pro), before, and θεραπεία (therapeia), service.

The Figure is used when, by way of precaution, we secure
indulgence, or conciliate others, with reference to something we are
about to say.

It is called also PROEPIPLEXIS, pro-ep-i-pleex’-is, from πρό
(pro), before, and ἐπίπληξις, blame, a blaming (of one’s self)
beforehand. i.e., in order to secure the attention or favour of another.

When it is added at the end of what is said, it is called
Epitherapeia (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
Joh. 3:2.-“Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God,”
etc.

Mat. 19:16.-“And, behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master.”
See under Synocoeosis. So Mar. 10:17. Luk. 18:18.

Act. 17:22.-“Ye men of Athens, | perceive that in all things ye are very
religious.” This is the meaning of the word (see R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] margin) δεισιδαιµονέστερος
(deisidaimonesteros), careful in the discharge of religious services.
For religion in itself is nothing. It depends entirely on what the religion
is, whether true or false.

There are only two religions in the world; and there never have
been more from Gen. 4:1-26 to the present day. They are put in the
forefront of Revelation. Abel's and Cain’s; God’s way and man’s way;
God’s way, and man’s attempted improvement on it.

All kinds of false religion agree in one thing. They are all alike, and
all at one in demanding that the sinner must do something, be
something, give, pay, feel, experience, or produce something, to merit
God’s favour. They quarrel bitterly as to what that something is to be.
Controversies rage concerning it; the blood of martyrs has been shed;
battles have been fought; but yet they are all agreed that the sinner
must say, “Something in my hand | bring.”
Whereas the one and only true religion is expressed in the words,
“NOTHING in my hand | bring.”
So that a man may be “very religious,” and yet be unsaved, and
“far off’ from God (Eph. 2:13).
Act. 26:2-3 is another beautiful example of true Protherapeia. See
also 22:3-6, etc.
Prodiorthosis; or, Warning
Something said to prepare for a shock
Pro’-di-or-tho’-sis. Greek, προδιόρθωσις, a preparatory apology, from
πρό (pro), before, and διόρθωσις (diorthosis), a making straight,
putting right; from διορθόω (diorthosd), to make straight, set straight.
This is the previous Figure of Protherapeia used to prepare the
hearers or readers for what might otherwise shock or offend them.
Palinodia; or, Retracting
Approval of one Thing after reproving for another Thing

Pal’-i-noédd’-i-a. Greek, TraAivwoia, a song repeated a second time;
hence a retracting of a former one.

The Figure is used when, having spoken against or reproved any
person or thing, we speak well of him or it.

Examples may be found in some of the Epistles to the Seven
Churches.

Ephesus: Rev. 2:6, after the reproof of verses 4 and 5.

Sardis: Rev. 3:4; Rev. 5:1-14, after the reproof of verse 1.

In the Old Testament, examples may be seen in 2Ch. 15:17; 2Ch.
19:3. Psa. 89:33; Psa. 106:8; Psa. 106:44.
Prolepsis (Occupatio); or, Anticipation

The answering of an Argument by anticipating it before it is used
Pro-leep’-sis. Greek, TpOANWic, a taking beforehand, from πρό (pro),
beforehand, and λαμβάνειν (lambanein), to take or receive.

This is a beautiful figure; by which we anticipate objections to what
we are stating.

The other general names of this figure are:

PROCATALEPSIS (Pro -cat-a-leep-sis). Greek, προκατάληψις, а
seizing beforehand, pre-occupation.

APANTESIS (Ap -an-tee’-sis). Greek, ἁπάντησις, a meeting;
hence a meeting of an objection by anticipation.

The Latins called it:

OCCUPATIO, anticipation.

ANTEOCCUPATIO, anticipation beforehand.

PRMONITIO, a defending beforehand, obviating objections.
All these different names show us the importance of the figure in
argumentation.

There is another kind of Prolepsis, which has to do only with time.
It is distinguished from our present figure in that while it anticipates
and speaks of future things as present it really adjourns the
application of the words, and is called AMPLIATIO, or adjournment.
(See pages 689 and 914).

The form of Prolepsis which we are considering is an anticipation
which has to do with Argumentation; and hence is distinguished from
the other by the word OCCUPATIO: i.e., we not only anticipate what is
coming, but occupy and deal with it, instead of adjourning or Putting it
off. See Section 4, above.

Prolepsis, as relating to Argumentation is of two kinds: (i.) Tecta,
or, closed; and (ii.) Aperta, or, open.

|. Tecta, or Closed Prolepsis, is where the anticipated objection

is merely stated or implied, not answered; or answered, but not
plainly stated.

Il. Aperta, or Open Prolepsis, is where the anticipated objection

is both answered and stated.
We will consider these in order with the different names which

have been given to them.

1. Tecta:
From the Latin tego, to roof or cover. The Prolepsis is so called when
it anticipates the objection, but confines itself merely to stating it. It is
called HYPOPHORA, hy-poph’-o-ra. Greek, ὑποφόρα, a holding
under, putting forward; then, that which is held forth, an objection.

Sometimes the objection is not stated, but is implied by the answer
which is given.

Rom. 9:6.-“Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect. For
they are not all Israel which are of Israel.”

The objection which is met is this: If Israel be rejected and cast off
for a time (as is going to be shown), then the Word of God has failed,
and is ineffectual. No! For they are not all Israel which are of Israel.
And there is to be a People taken out from among the Gentiles for His
name, as well as a remnant of Israel, according to the election of
grace.

Rom. 10:18.-“But | say, Have they not heard? (Anticipating the
objection that they have not heard.) Yes verily,” etc.

Rom. 11:1.-“l say then, Hath God cast away his people?” (Anticipating
the objection, which many make even until to-day.) To which he
replies, “God forbid,” etc.
Rom. 11:11.-“I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall [for
ever]?” (Thus anticipating the objection that they had done so, and
meeting it in the words that follow), or, “Their falling away was not the
object (or purpose) of their stumbling, was it?”
Il. Aperta

Latin, aperta, open. This use of the figure is so called, because not
only is the objection anticipated; but it is stated, and the answer also is
given.

The names for this variation are ANTHYPOPHORA, an -thy-poph
“-o-ra. Greek, ἀνθυποθόρα, a reply to an objection; from ἀντί (anti),
against, ὑπό (hypo), under, and φορέω (phores), to bring or put under.
Hence, a substitution by stealth. The figure being so called because,
by stealth, we take our opponent's objection, and substitute it for our
own.

It was also called

SCHESIS, schee™-sis. Greek, αχῆσις, a checking; because, by
anticipating the objection, we check the opponent, and keep him from
speaking or replying.
ANASCHESIS, an-a’-sche-sis’. Greek, ἀνάσχεσις, a taking on
one’s self.

PROSAPODOTON, pros-a-pod’-o-ton. Greek, προσαπόδοτον, а
giving back to or besides.

HYPOBOLE, hy-pob’-o-lee. Greek, ὑποβολή, a throwing under.
Isa. 49:14.-Zion’s objection is not merely anticipated in this verse, but
is answered in the next.

“But Zion said, The Lord hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath
forgotten me.”

“Can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not have
compassion on the son of her womb? yea, they may forget, yet will |
not forget thee.”

Mat. 3:9.-“Think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to
our father: for | say unto you, that God is able even of these stones to
raise up children unto Abraham.” See under Parechesis.

Rom. 3:1-10.-Under the figure Antimetathesis, we have shown how
the objections of an imaginary Jewish opponent are here stated and
met. See section 2, above: “As to persons.”

Rom. 4:1-3.-The objection is met, that Abraham was justified by
works-his faith being a work. This is shewn in verse 4 and the
following verses to be impossible, as denying the very first principles
of grace.
Rom. 6:1-2.-“What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that
grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we, who have died to sin,
live any longer therein?”

That is to say: If those who are “in Christ” died in God’s purpose
when Christ died, how can they live in sin?
Rom. 7:7.-“What shall we say then? that the Law is sin? God forbid.
Nay, | had not known sin, but by the Law.”
Rom. 9:14-15.-“What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness
with God? God forbid. For,” etc.
Rom. 9:19.-See above under Anteisagoge.
Rom. 11:20-21.-See above under Epitrope.
1Со. 15:35-36.-“But some man will say, How are the dead raised up?
and with what body do they come? Thou foolish man! that which thou
sowest is not quickened, except it die.”