Introduction
JEHOVAH has been pleased to give us the revelation of His mind and
will in words. It is therefore absolutely necessary that we should
understand not merely the meanings of the words themselves, but
also the laws which govern their usage and combinations.

All language is governed by law; but, in order to increase the
power of a word, or the force of an expression, these laws are
designedly departed from, and words and sentences are thrown into,
and used in, new forms, or figures.

The ancient Greeks reduced these new and peculiar forms to
science, and gave names to more than two hundred of them.

The Romans carried forward this science: but with the decline of
learning in the Middle Ages, it practically died out. A few writers have
since then occasionally touched upon it briefly, and have given a few
trivial examples: but the knowledge of this ancient science is so
completely forgotten, that its very name to-day is used in a different
sense and with almost an opposite meaning.

These manifold forms which words and sentences assume were
called by the Greeks Schema (σχῆμα) and by the Romans, Figura.
Both words have the same meaning, viz., a shape or figure. When we
speak of a person as being “a figure” we mean one who is dressed in
some peculiar style, and out of the ordinary manner. The Greek word
Schema is found in 1Co. 7:31, “The fashion of this world passeth
away”; Php. 2:8, “being found in fashion as a man.” The Latin word
Figura is from the verb fingere, to form, and has passed into the
English language in the words figure, transfigure, configuration, effigy,
feint, feign, etc., etc.

We use the word figure now in various senses. Its primitive
meaning applies to any marks, lines, or outlines, which make a form or
shape. Arithmetical figures are certain marks or forms which represent
numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.). All secondary and derived meanings of the
word “figure” retain this primitive meaning.

Applied to words, a figure denotes some form which a word or
sentence takes, different from its ordinary and natural form. This is
always for the purpose of giving additional force, more life, intensified
feeling, and greater emphasis. Whereas to-day “Figurative language”
is ignorantly spoken of as though it made less of the meaning, and
deprived the words of their power and force. A passage of God’s Word
is quoted; and it is met with the cry,” Oh, that is figurative”-implying
that its meaning is weakened, or that it has quite a different meaning,
or that it has no meaning at all. But the very opposite is the case. For
an unusual form (figura) is never used except to add force to the truth
conveyed, emphasis to the statement of it, and depth to the meaning
of it. When we apply this science then to God’s words and to Divine
truths, we see at once that no branch of Bible study can be more
important, or offer greater promise of substantial reward.
It lies at the very root of all translation; and it is the key to true
interpretation ... As the course of language moves smoothly along,
according to the laws which govern it, there is nothing by which it can
awaken or attract our attention. It is as when we are travelling by
railway. As long as everything proceeds according to the regulations
we notice nothing; we sleep, or we read, or meditate as the case may
be. But, let the train slacken its speed, or make an unexpected stop;-
we immediately hear the question asked, “What is the matter?” “What
are we stopping for?” We hear one window go down and then another:
attention is thoroughly aroused, and interest excited. So it is exactly
with our reading. As long as all proceeds smoothly and according to
law we notice nothing. But suddenly there is a departure from some
law, a deviation from the even course-an unlooked for change-our
attention is attracted, and we at once give our mind to discover why
the words have been used in a new form, what the particular force of
the passage is, and why we are to put special emphasis on the fact
stated or on the truth conveyed. In fact, it is not too much to say that,
in the use of these figures, we have, as it were, the Holy Spirit’s own
markings of our Bibles.

This is the most important point of all. For it is not by fleshly
wisdom that the “words which the Holy Ghost teacheth” are to be
understood. The natural man cannot understand the Word of God. It is
foolishness unto him. A man may admire a sun-dial, he may marvel at
its use, and appreciate the cleverness of its design; he may be
interested in its carved-work, or wonder at the mosaics or other
beauties which adorn its structure: but, if he holds a lamp in his hand
or any other light emanating from himself or from this world, he can
make it any hour he pleases, and he will never be able to tell the time
of day. Nothing but the light from God’s sun in the Heavens can tell
him that. So it is with the Word of God. The natural man may admire
its structure, or be interested in its statements; he may study its
geography, its history, yea, even its prophecy; but none of these things
will reveal to him his relation to time and eternity. Nothing but the light
that cometh from Heaven. Nothing but the Sun of Righteousness can
tell him that. It may be said of the Bible, therefore, as it is of the New
Jerusalem-“The Lamb is the light thereof.” The Holy Spirit's work in
this world is to lead to Christ, to glorify Christ. The Scriptures are
inspired by the Holy Spirit; and the same Spirit that inspired the words
in the Book must inspire its truths in our hearts, for they can and must
be “Spiritually discerned” (1Co. 2:1-16).

On this foundation, then, we have prosecuted this work. And on
these lines we have sought to carry it out.

We are dealing with the words “which the Holy Ghost teacheth.” All
His works are perfect. “The words of the Lord are pure words”; human
words, indeed, words pertaining to this world, but purified as silver is
refined in a furnace. Therefore we must study every word, and in so
doing we shall soon learn to say with Jeremiah (Jer. 15:16), “Thy
words were found, and | did eat them; and Thy Word was unto me the
joy and rejoicing of mine heart ...”

It is clear, therefore, that no branch of Bible-study can be more
important: and yet we may truly say that there is no branch of it which
has been so utterly neglected.

John Vilant Macbeth (Professor of Rhetoric, etc., in the University
of West Virginia) has said:-
“There is no even tolerably good treatise on Figures existing at
present in our language-Is there in any other tongue? There is no
consecutive discussion of them of more than a few pages; the
examples brought forward by all others being trivial in the extreme and
threadbare; while the main conception of what constitutes the chief
class of figures is altogether narrow, erroneous, and unphilosophical.
Writers generally, even the ablest, are wholly in the dark as to the
precise distinction between a trope and a metonomy; and very few
even of literary men have so much as heard of Hypocatastasis or
Implication, one of the most important of figures, and one, too, that is
constantly shedding its light upon us.”* [Note: The Might and Mirth of
Literature, by John Walker Vilant Macbeth, Professor of Rhetoric, etc.,
in the University of West Virginia, New York, 1875, page 38. This work
was published simultaneously in London, but the edition had to be
sent back to New York, owing to the fact that there was no demand for
it!]

Solomon Glassius (1593-1656), a converted Jew, anda
distinguished theologian, in Germany, two centuries and a half ago,
published (in 1625) his important work Philologia Sacra, in which he
includes an important treatise on Sacred Rhetoric. This is by far the
fullest account of Biblical Figures ever published. But this work is
written in Latin, and has never been translated into any language.

Benjamin Keach (1640-1704) published in 1682 his
Troposchemalogia: or, a Key to open the Scripture Metaphors and
Types. He does not hesitate to avail himself largely of Glassius’s work,
though he barely acknowledges it, or the extent to which he is
indebted to it. There is much that is good and true and useful, with
much that is fanciful, in Keach’s volumes.

John Albert Bengel (1687-1752) is the only commentator who has
ever taken Figures of Language seriously into account as a key to the
interpretation and elucidation of the Scriptures. It is this fact which
gives his commentary on the New Testament (which he calls a
Gnomon) such great value, and imparts such excellence to it, making
it unique among commentaries.

M. John Alb. Burk has drawn up an explanatory Index of over 100
of these “technical terms” occuring in Bengel’s Commentary, and a
Translation of it, by Canon Fausset, is added to T. and T. Clark’s
English Edition of Bengel, to serve as a key to that work.

Beyond this there is but little. Dr. McGill, in his Lectures on
Rhetoric and Criticism, Glasgow, 1838, devotes one chapter to the
subject of Figurative language, and describes about sixteen Figures.
Alexander Carson in a Treatise on the Figures of Speech,* [Note:
Bound up in a Vol., with An Examination of the Principles of Biblical
Interpretation, New York, 1855.] classifies and names about forty-
three figures.

Archdeacon Farrar in A brief Greek Syntax, London, 1867, has
one chapter on Figures, and describes a few, illustrating them from the
classics.
Horne’s Introduction to the Bible devotes one chapter out of his
four volumes to “Figurative Language,” but confines himself to
describing only ten Figures.

There are one or two small works of more recent date. The
Rhetorical Speaker and Poetical Class-book, by R. T. Linnington,
1844. He describes some 35 Figures, but uses them only as a study
for rhetorical effect, and illustrates them from general literature for
purposes of recitation.

The S.P.C.K. also published, in 1849, a course of lectures on the
Figurative Language of the Holy Scriptures, delivered in the Parish
Church of Nayland in Suffolk in 1786.
Thus we are justified in saying that Bible students can find no
complete work on the subject of Figurative Language in its relation to
the Bible.

There are several small works on Rhetoric. But Rhetoric is an
adaptation of Figurative Language for the purposes of elocution; and,
treatises on Rhetoric hardly come within the scope of our present
object.

Translators and commentators, as a rule, have entirely ignored the
subject; while by some it has been derided. There is great need,
therefore, for a work which shall deal exhaustively with the great
subject of Figurative Language; and, if possible, reduce the Figures to
some kind of system (which has never yet been completely done
either by the Ancients or Moderns), and apply them to the elucidation
of the Word of God. The gems and pearls which will be strung
together will be exquisite, because they are Divine; but the thread,
though human, will be of no mean value. The mode of treatment is
new and comprehensive. It is new; for never before has Figurative
Language been taken as a subject of Bible study: it is comphrensive,
for it embraces the facts and truths which lie at the foundation of the
Christian faith, and the principles which are the essence of Protestant
truth.

It is moreover a difficult study for the general reader, For, besides
the difficulty which naturally arises from the absence of any standard
works upon the subject, there are three other difficulties of no mean
magnitude which have doubtless tended much to deter students from
taking up the subject, even where there may have been a desire to
study it.

The first difficulty is their nomenclature. All the names of these
figures are either in Greek or Latin. This difficulty can be, to a great
extent, cleared away by a simple explanation, and by substituting an
English equivalent, which we have here attempted.

The second difficulty is their number. We have catalogued over
200 distinct figures, several of them with from 30 to 40 varieties. Many
figures have duplicate names which brings up the total number of
names to more than 500.

John Holmes, in his Rhetoric made easy (1755), gives a list of
250.

J. Vilant Macbeth, (in his work already referred to), deals with 220,
which he illustrates only from English and American literature.

While G. W. Hervey’s System of Christian Rhetoric (1873) defines
256 with 467 names.

The third difficulty is the utter absence of any classification. These
figures do not seem to have ever been arranged in any satisfactory
order. If the Greeks did this work, no record of it seems to have come
down to us.

The three great Divisions into which they usually fall are:

|. Figures of Etymology: which are departures from the ordinary
Spelling of words. These consist of some 18 Figures, such as
Aphrresis, front-cut, ’ghast for aghast, ‘fore for before, etc.
Syncope, mid-cut, e’er for ever, o’er for over.
Apocope, end-cut, Lucrece for Lucretia, etc., etc.
Il. Figures of Syntax or Grammar: which are alterations of the
ordinary meaning of words.
Ill. Figures of Rhetoric: which are deviations from the ordinary
application of words.
With the first of these, we are not now concerned, as it has nothing
to do with our present work.
It is only with the Figures of Syntax and Rhetoric that we have to
deal.
These have been sometimes mixed together, and then divided into
two classes:-
|. Figures that affect words.
ll. Figures that affect thought.
But this is a very imperfect arrangement; and, as Dr. Blair says, “Is
of no great use; as nothing can be built upon it in practice, neither is it
always clear.”
Another arrangement is (1) figures that are the result of feeling,
and (2) those that are the result of imagination. But this also is
defective and inadequate.

In the absence of any known authoritative arrangement of the
Figures, we have grouped them in this work under three great natural
divisions:-

|. Figures which depend for their peculiarity on any Omission: in
which something is omitted in the words themselves or in the sense
conveyed by them (Elliptical Figures).

Il. Figures which depend on any Addition, by Repetition of words
or sense (Pleonastic Figures): and

Ill. Figures which depend on Change, or Alteration in the usage,
order, or application of words.

We have fully set out this arrangement in a Summary of
Classification, and, in an Analytical Table of Contents; where, for the
first time, will be seen a complete classified list of Figures, with
English equivalents, brief definitions, and alternative names.

A figure is, as we have before said, a departure from the natural
and fixed laws of Grammar or Syntax; but it is a departure not arising
from ignorance or accident. Figures are not mere mistakes of
Grammar; on the contrary, they are legitimate departures from law, for
a special purpose. They are permitted variations with a particular
object. Therefore they are limited as to their number, and can be
ascertained, named, and described.
No one is at liberty to exercise any arbitrary power in their use. All
that art can do is to ascertain the laws to which nature has subjected
them. There is no room for private opinion, neither can speculation
concerning them have any authority.

It is not open to any one to say of this or that word or sentence,
“This is a figure,” according to his own fancy, or to suit his own
purpose. We are dealing with a science whose laws and their
workings are known. If a word or words be a figure, then that figure
can be named, and described. It is used for a definite purpose and
with a specific object. Man may use figures in ignorance, without any
particular object. But when the Holy Spirit takes up human words and
uses a figure (or peculiar form), it is for a special purpose, and that
purpose must be observed and have due weight given to it.

Many misunderstood and perverted passages are difficult, only
because we have not known the Lord’s design in the difficulty.

Thomas Boys has well said (Commentary, 1Pe. 3:1-22), “There is
much in the Holy Scriptures, which we find it hard to understand: nay,
much that we seem to understand so fully as to imagine that we have
discovered in it some difficulty or inconsistency. Yet the truth is, that
passages of this kind are often the very parts of the Bible in which the
greatest instruction is to be found: and, more than this, the instruction
is to be obtained in the contemplation of the very difficulties by which
at first we are startled. This is the intention of these apparent
inconsistencies. The expressions are used, in order that we may mark
them, dwell upon them, and draw instruction out of them. Things are
put to us in a strange way, because, if they were put in a more
ordinary way, we should not notice them.”

This is true, not only of mere difficulties as such, but especially of
all Figures: i.e., of all new and unwonted forms of words and speech:
and our design in this work is that we should learn to notice them and
gain the instruction they were intended to give us.
The Word of God may, in one respect, be compared to the earth.
All things necessary to life and sustenance may be obtained by
scratching the surface of the earth: but there are treasures of beauty
and wealth to be obtained by digging deeper into it. So it is with the
Bible. “All things necessary to life and godliness” lie upon its surface
for the humblest saint; but, beneath that surface are “great spoils”
which are found only by those who seek after them as for “hid
treasure.”

The plan of the work is as follows:-

1. To give in its proper order and place each one of two hundred
and seventeen figures of speech, by name.

2. Then to give the proper pronunciation of its name.

3. Then its etymology, showing why the name was given to it, and
what is its meaning.

4. And, after this, a number of passages of Scripture, in full, where
the figure is used, ranging from two or three instances, to some
hundreds under each figure, accompanied by a full explanation. These
special passages amount, in all, to nearly eight thousand.

We repeat, and it must be borne in mind, that all these many forms
are employed only to set forth the truth with greater vigour, and with a
far greater meaning: and this, for the express purpose of indicating to
us what is emphatic; and to call and attract our attention, so that it
may be directed to, and fixed upon, the special truth which is to be
conveyed to us.

Not every Figure is of equal importance, nor is every passage of
equal interest.

But we advise all students of this great subject to go patiently
forward, assuring them that from time to time they will be amply
rewarded; and often when least expected.

The use of the work.

This work may be used either for the direct study of this important
subject; or it may be used simply as a constant companion to the
Bible, and as a work of reference.

A copious index of Texts and Passages illustrated has been
compiled for this purpose; and will be found, with six other Indexes,
and five Appendixes, at the end of the volume.

Ethelbert W. Bullinger.

25 Connaught Street,

London.
November, 1899.

Note on Figures in General

A FIGURE is simply a word or a sentence thrown into a peculiar form,
different from its original or simplest meaning or use. These forms are
constantly used by every speaker and writer. It is impossible to hold
the simplest conversation, or to write a few sentences without, it may
be unconsciously, making use of figures. We may say, “the ground
needs rain”: that is a plain, cold, matter-of-fact statement; but if we say
“the ground is thirsty,” we immediately use a figure. It is not true to
fact, and therefore it must be a figure. But how true to feeling it is! how
full of warmth and life! Hence, we say, “the crops suffer’; we speak of
“a hard heart,” “a rough man,” “an iron will.” In all these cases we take
a word which has a certain, definite meaning, and apply the name, or
the quality, or the act, to some other thing with which it is associated,
by time or place, cause or effect, relation or resemblance.

Some figures are common to many languages; others are peculiar
to some one language. There are figures used in the English
language, which have nothing that answers to them in Hebrew or
Greek; and there are Oriental figures which have no counterpart in
English; while there are some figures in various languages, arising
from human infirmity and folly, which find, of course, no place in the
word of God.

It may be asked, “How are we to know, then, when words are to be
taken in their simple, original form (i.e., literally), and when they are to
be taken in some other and peculiar form ({6., as a Figure)?” The
answer is that, whenever and wherever it is possible, the words of
Scripture are to be understood literally, but when a statement appears
to be contrary to our experience, or to known fact, or revealed truth; or
seems to be at variance with the general teaching of the Scriptures,
then we may reasonably expect that some figure is employed. And as
it is employed only to call our attention to some specially designed
emphasis, we are at once bound to diligently examine the figure for
the purpose of discovering and learning the truth that is thus
emphasized.

From non-attention to these Figures, translators have made
blunders as serious as they are foolish. Sometimes they have
translated the figure literally, totally ignoring its existence; sometimes
they have taken it fully into account, and have translated, not
according to the letter, but according to the spirit; sometimes they
have taken literal words and translated them figuratively.
Commentators and interpreters, from inattention to the figures, have
been led astray from the real meaning of many important passages of
God’s Word; while ignorance of them has been the fruitful parent of
error and false doctrine. It may be truly said that most of the gigantic
errors of Rome, as well as the erroneous and conflicting views of the
Lord’s People, have their root and source, either in figuratively
explaining away passages which should be taken literally, or in taking
literally what has been thrown into a peculiar form or Figure of
language: thus, not only falling into error, but losing the express
teaching, and missing the special emphasis which the particular
Figure was designed to impart to them.
This is an additional reason for using greater exactitude and care
when we are dealing with the words of God. Man’s words are scarcely
worthy of such study. Man uses figures, but often at random and often
in ignorance or in error. But “the words of the Lord are pure words.” All
His works are perfect, and when the Holy Spirit takes up and uses
human words, He does so, we may be sure, with unerring accuracy,
infinite wisdom, and perfect beauty.

We may well, therefore, give all our attention to “the words which
the Holy Ghost teacheth.”