Euphemismos; or, Euphemy

Change of what is unpleasant for pleasant

Eu’-phee-mis’-mos. Greek, αὐφημισμός, from  εὐφημίζειν
(euphemizein), to use words of good omen, from Е0 (eu), well, and
φημί (pheemi), to speak Hence, Eng., Euphemy.

Euphemy is a figure by which a harsh or disagreeable expression
is changed for a pleasant and agreeable one; or, where an offensive
word or expression is changed for a gentle one; or an indelicate word
for a modest word.
This figure is not, strange to say, generally used as with us of the
ordinary functions of nature, which are often exaggerated by
civilization and fashion into a false modesty. The Scriptures use very
plain language on plain subjects: but there are beautiful Euphemies
used where really delicate feelings or sentiments are affected.

Indeed, we may say that the contrast between the Hebrew and
other languages in this respect is one of the greatest proofs of
Inspiration. Other languages abound in terms of indecency and
immorality, which are a corrupt reflex of the corrupt mind of fallen man.
But “the words of Jehovah are pure words.”

As to our “uncomely parts,” as the Holy Spirit terms them, there is
actually no word in the Hebrew for the female, and for the male a
Euphemy is employed.

We may contrast with this the tendency of man, not only downward
in this direction, but in his vain attempts to cover his sin and to make
himself appear better than he is. Examples abound in every day life.
“A love-child” covers illegitimacy; “a free life” glosses a debauchee; “a
gentleman of the road” covered a highway robber. So the Romans
called a thief “a man of three letters,” because the Latin word for thief
is “fur.” On the other hand, among ourselves, “the hydraulic van” has
superseded the water-cart; the shop has become an “establishment”
or “emporium”; the butcher has blossomed into “a purveyor of meat”;
the hair-dresser is “an artist” or “professor,” etc., etc.

But the Euphemisms of the Bible are not like these! Sin is not
glossed over or “wrapped up,” but spoken of plainly in all its
abomination. Man is not deceived by coloured and pretty ornaments of
speech.
Compare, again, man’s Euphemies of “life” and “death”; and note
the false teaching conveyed by them, when compared with those used
in the word of God. Man calls “death” a friend, and speaks of “joining
the majority’: but God speaks of it as a terrible calamity, and calls it
“the enemy’; “the last enemy,” “the king of terrors,” etc., though, in the
case of His own people, He speaks of their being “put to sleep by
Jesus” (1Th. 4:14). It is only a “sleep”; because the Lord Himself will
come to wake them.

The change in Euphemy is necessarily obtained by using several
words for one, and is therefore a special kind of Periphrasis: i.e., a
Periphrasis used with a special object.

Hence it was called also PERIPLOCE (Per-i-plok’-ee), from περί
(peri), around, and πλοκή (plokee), a folding; a figure by which the
unpleasantness of a thing is wrapped round and made to appear
agreeable.

CHROMA (Chro’-ma) was another name given to the figure, from
χρῶμα (chrapma), a colouring, an ornament, or embellishment.

The Latins called it also INVOLUTIO: i.e., an involution.

In English we might call it “a smooth handle”: i.e., a polite
expression for a rough or unpleasant one.