Hyperbaton; or, Transposition

The placing of a Word out of its usual order in a Sentence

Hy-per’-ba-ton. Greek, 20е( from 22 (hyper), over, and 5 στ.
(bainein), to step. Hence =)®!'! and Hyperbaton, a stepping over,
transposition.

The figure is so called because the words of a sentence are put
out of their natural and usual grammatical order.

All words are arranged in a sentence according to certain laws,
which have been acquired by usage. These laws are not the same in
all languages, but each language has its own peculiar laws, called
Syntax, which merely means a putting together in order. Even in one
language this order may vary in different stages of its history and
development.

Hyperbaton is a putting together of words in a way contrary to or
different from the usual order. Hence, what is Hyperbaton in one
language may not be Hyperbaton in another.

In English, the arrangement of words in a sentence usually follows
the order of thought. Hence, naturally, the subject (with all that
pertains to it) comes first: i.e., the thing spoken of; then follows the
copula: i.e., the verb, and all words connected with it; and then the
predicate: i.e., something said about the subject, called the object,
with its adjuncts.
In an inflected langnage (like the Greek, for example) it is not so
necessary to keep to the formal arrangement of the words in a
sentence, the grammatical dependence of words being sufficiently
indicated by the inflections. Consequently there is great room for a
variety of arrangements, when a particular word has to be
emphasized.

It is hopeless to attempt to give an adequate idea of the nature
and extent of the beautiful and subtle shades of meaning and thought
produced by these unusual collocation of words called Hyperbaton. So
delicate are they, at times, that it is scarcely possible to reproduce
them in a translation.

In the Greek language, the object usually follows the governing
verb; but it sometimes comes before it. The predicate usually comes
after the object; but sometimes it stands first. The adjective usually
follows the noun which it qualifies; but sometimes it stands before its
noun: etc, etc.

The most emphatic position for these transposed words is at the
beginning of a clause; but sometimes it is at the end; in which case
the word is held back, and kept in suspense, while the attention is kept
up, and the hearer or reader has nothing for it but to listen to the close
for fear of losing the whole. When it is put out of its place, and stands
out at the beginning, it thrusts itself upon our notice, and compels us
to give all our attention, and see what it is that is going to be said
about it.
In the old Hebrew Syntax, the subject usually precedes the
predicate, the adjective the substantive, pronouns the nouns, the
genitive the nominative, and the nominative the verb: e.g., Jdg. 1:7:
“seventy kings thumbs of their hands and feet cut off, were.”

In more modern Hebrew Syntax, the adjective follows the
substantive; pronouns follow nouns; while the genitive follows the
nominative which has a special form called the “construct.”

In Chaldee, the verb is placed after the subject, and the article
after the noun.
It has been said that “proper words in proper places is the true
definition of style.” But an intentional deviation from the ordinary “style”
for the purpose of attracting attention and expressing the emphasis is
the definition of Hyperbaton.

We may illustrate its use in this way. A person has a particular
chair in his room, which he wishes his friends to notice. They continue
to call, but do not notice it. It is in the usual place where chairs ought
to be, and so does not attract any special attention. But one day he
places this chair upon the table. Who can then fail to observe it, the
moment the room is entered?

This is exactly what takes place with words, in the figure
Hyperbaton. Special attention is desired for some particular word.
Placed in its ordinary and usual position, it may not be noticed. But,
put out of its usual order and place at the beginning instead of at the
end of a sentence, it is impossible for the reader not to be arrested by
it.

If we say, for example, “The mystery of godliness is great,” that is
the natural order of the English words. But if we say, “Great is the
mystery of godliness,” we see at once that all the emphasis is to be
placed on the word “great.”

This figure has also been called SYNCHYSIS, Syn-chy-sis:
Greek, [© !, from {Je 55 (synchein), to mix up, which is from К
(sun), together, and =" (chein), to pour. Hence, ' (chysis), a
pouring, and Synchysis, a mixing up, as of words in a sentence.