Polysyndeton; or, Many-ands

The repetition of the word “and” at the beginning of successive

clauses
Pol’-y-syn’-de-ton. Greek, πολυσύδετον, from πολύς (polbis), many,
and συνδετόν (syndeton), bound together; hence, in grammar, it
means a conjunction (from σύν (syn) and δεῖν (dein), to bind). The
word, therefore, means much bound together or many conjunctions.

It is called also POLYSYNTHETON, from τίθηµ! (titheemi), to put
or place. Hence many puttings: i.e., of the same word-in this case of
the word “and.”

The English name for the Figure will, therefore, be MANY-ANDS.

Polysyndeton is merely one special form of Anaphora (q.v. [Note:
Which see.] ): i.e., it is a repetition of the same word at the beginning
of successive sentences: but this is always one special word “and.”
To understand the full significance and use of Polysyndeton, the
student must consider along with it the opposite Figure A-syndeton
(the same word syndeton with “a” prefixed, meaning no, instead of
“poly,” meaning many). See A-syn’-de-ton, i.e., NO-ANDS (page 137).

The two Figures form a pair, and should be studied together.

The Laws of Grammar decide for us how the conjunction “and”
should be used. If we are enumerating a number of things, we (by
usage) place the conjunction immediately before the last. This is the
cold law, which leaves what we say without any special emphasis. But
this law may be legitimately broken in two different ways for the sake
of emphasis. In order to attract the attention of the hearer or reader,
we may either use NO ANDS, or we may use MANY ANDS. Man may
use these figures, however, without sufficient reason, and unwisely:
but the Holy Spirit ever uses words in all perfection, and it behoves us
carefully to note whatever He thus calls our attention to.
When He uses “No-ands,” He does not ask us to stop and
consider the various particulars which are enumerated, but to hasten
on to some grand climax. In this case that climax which we read at the
end, is the all-important matter on which the greatest emphasis is to
be placed.

When He uses “many-ands,” there is never any climax at the end.
Instead of hurrying us on, breathlessly, to reach the important
conclusion; we are asked to stop at each point, to Weigh each matter
that is presented to us, and to consider each particular that is thus
added and emphasized.