Hendiadys; or, Two for One

Two words used, but one thing meant

Hen-dor-a-dy"s, from ἕν (hen), one, διὰ (dia), by, δίς (dis) two (from
δύο, two). Lit, one by means of two. Two words employed, but only
one thing, or idea, intended. One of the two words expresses the
thing, and the other (of synonymous, or even different, signification,
not a second thing or idea) intensifies it by being changed (if a noun)
into an adjective of the superlative degree, which is, by this means,
made especially emphatic.

The figure is truly oriental, and exceedingly picturesque. It is found
in Latin as well as in Hebrew and Greek, and is very frequently used in
both Old and New Testaments.

The two words are of the same parts of speech: i.e., two nouns (or
two verbs) always joined together by the conjunction “and.” The two
nouns are always in the same case.

An example or two from the Latin will serve to explain the true
nature of this figure, which is one of the most important in the Bible.
Tacitus (Ann. i. 49. 5) says, “ultio et satietas,” ΙΗ., a revenge and a
sufficiency. Here we have not two things, but only one, though there
are two words. The latter noun becomes a very strong adjective,
which may be well and excellently expressed by our English idiom: “a
revenge, yes-and a sufficient revenge too”: i.e., a sufficient revenge,
with strong emphasis on the word “sufficient,” from its being thus
changed from a noun to an adjective of superlative degree. Had the
mere adjective been used, the emphasis would then have been on
“revenge,” thus naturally qualified.

Tacitus, again (Ann. i. 61), speaks of one who was slain, “infelici
dextera et suo ictu,” by his hapless right hand, and his own blow: {6.,
“by his hapless right hand, yes-a blow dealt by his own hand too.”

Tacitus (Ann. ii. 82. end): “tempore et spatio,” time and space.
Here we have not two things, but one: i.e., “time, yes-and a long-
extended time too.”

Tacitus (Ann. iii. 65. 1): “posteritate et infamia,” posterity and
infamy: i.e., “posterity, yes-and an infamous posterity too.”

Virgil (Aen. vii. 15): “gemitus iraeque,” roars and angers: i.e.,
“roars, yes-and angry roars too.”
Virgil (Aen. vii. 772): “medicinae et artis,” medicine and art, or
healing and skill: i.e., “healing, yes-and skilful healing too,” or skill (and
great skill too) in healing.

Horace (Od. i. 35. 33): “cicatricum et sceleris ... fratrumque,” scars
and crime and brothers: i.e., “scars and crime (i.e., criminal scars),
yes-and criminal scars inflicted by brethren too.” This is a case of
Hendiatris (see below).
Ceesar (b. ο. iv. 18): “vi et armis,” by force and arms: i.e., “by force,
yes-and armed force too.”

Many more examples could be given of this figure which is so
commonly used in Latin.

The Greek Classics also abound in examples:

Sophocles (Ajax 145): βοτὰ καὶ λείαν (bota kai leian), cattle and
plunder: i.e., “cattle, yes-and plundered cattle too.”

Hendiadys always raises the qualifying word to the superlative
degree.

But we are not to suppose that whenever we find two words joined
together by the word “and” we have the figure of Hendiadys. It may be
Epitheton.

It does not follow that in every case where two nouns are thus
joined we have only one idea. In the first place, there must be
something to attract our attention, something out of the ordinary
usage, and sometimes not strictly according to the /etter.

And occasionally, even in an undoubted Hendiadys, the two words
may be equally true when taken separately and severally, as when
joined together in one. In these cases both letter and figure arecorrect,
and the passage gains considerable additional light and force.

Another point to be remembered is that the two words must have a
certain relation to each other: one must indicate a property of the
other, or be associated in some way with it.

There cannot be a Hendiadys where the two words are opposed in
any way in their signification; nor even when there is no real
connection between them.

For example: Php. 1:25, “I know that | shall abide and continue
with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith.” Here, in each case,
there are two distinct ideas: the abiding in life, and continuing with the
Philippian saints; also, their “furtherance” was one thing, and their
“joy” another.

On the other hand, verse 11 may be taken in both ways: “Being
filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto
the glory and praise of God.” This may be two things: either, to the
glory of God, and the praise of God; or it may be only one: “Unto the
praise, yes-the glorious praise, of God.”

So Rom. 15:4 : “Whatsoever things were written aforetime were
written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the
Scriptures might have hope.”

Here there are two things, not one, because comforting is not a
proper qualification of patience.

In reading this verse, therefore, a pause must be made after the
word “patience” (which we possess), so as to distinguish it from the
“comfort” (which the Scriptures give).

In most cases, the context and the analogy of Scripture will decide
the doubt.