Simile; or, Resemblance

A Declaration that one Thing resembles another; or, Comparison by
Resemblance

Sim’-i-le. This is the Latin name of the figure; from similis, like, similar,
resembling closely, or in many respects.

This figure has no corresponding Greek name. Indeed it can
hardly be called a figure, or an unusual form of expression, seeing it is
quite literal, and one of the commonest forms of expression in use. It
is a cold, clear, plain statement as to a resemblance between words
and things. The whole application of the figure lies in this
Resemblance, and not in Representation, as in Metonymy; or in
Implication, as in Hypocatastasis; or, in Association, as in
Synecdoche.

Accordingly, when this resemblance is not apparent, or is counter
to our ordinary perception of things, it jars upon the ear. Such Similes
abound in human writings. Hence the pleasure of studying the use of
them in the Word of God, where we have the Holy Spirit’s own perfect
work.
Many examples could be given of false, or incongruous Similes in
human writings. Take, for example, Montgomery’s poem on Satan:*
[Note: Quoted in Macbeth’s Might and Mirth of Literature.]

“Lo! the bright dew-bead on the bramble lies,
Like liquid rapture upon Beauty’s eyes.”

We fail to see any resemblance between beauteous eyes and a
bramble; or, any meaning at all in “liquid rapture.”

So Mrs. Browning:

“Then the bitter sea

Inexorably pushed between us both;

And sweeping up the steep with my despair,
Threw us out as a pasture to the stars.”

We fail to see any resemblance between a ship and a pasture; and
why stars go out to grass; or, when they do, why they should feed on
ships and their passengers!

No such inexplicable similes as these can be found in the
Scriptures.

When one is used there, it is “for our learning;” and the more we
study it the more we may learn.

They are usually marked by the Caph (2) in Hebrew; and in the
Greek by ὡς (hds), as; καθώς (kathés), like as; or, by some seventeen
other kindred words* [Note: See under the word “AS” in A Critical
Lexicon and Concordance, by the same author. Longman and Co 15
5.1: and the English: “as,” “like as,” “even as,” “like,” etc.

Simile differs from Comparison, in that comparison admits of dis-
similitudes as well as resemblances.

Simile differs from Allegory (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ) in that
allegory names only one of the two things and leaves us to find, and
make the resemblance with the other, ourselves.

Simile differs from Metaphor (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ), in that it
merely states resemblance, while Metaphor boldly transfers the
representation.

Simile differs from Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), in that
the latter only implies the resemblance, while Simile states it.
Simile, therefore, is destitute of feeling. It is clear, beautiful, gentle,
true to fact, but cold and too deliberate for passion.

All this will be seen as the Similes are studied. They require no

explanation. They explain and are intended to explain themselves. It is
scarcely necessary to give any examples. They abound throughout
the Scripture, and impart to it much of its beauty and force.