So Virgil (Buc. Ecl i. 70) speaks of Meliboeus returning to hit home
“after some ears of corn,” where the “ears of corn” are first put (by
Metonymy of Subject) for the harvest-time, and then the harvest-time
is put mentally (by Metonymy of Adjunct) for a years So that what
Meliboeus means is that he will return after some years.
The Latins called the figure TRANSUMPTIO: i.e., a taking across from
one to another. They sometimes called it TRANSLATIO, a transferring
across; but this latter name is best reserved as representing Metaphor
rather than Metalepsis.

We have one or two examples:-
Gen. 19:8.-“Therefore came they under the shadow of my roof.”
Here, “roof” is first put (by Synecdoche) for the whole house, of which
it was a part: and then the house is put for the protection it afforded.
Ecc. 12:5.-The Heb. of this is literally “and the caper-berry shall be
powerless.”

Almost every part of the caper-berry plant was used to make
condiments; but the berries were specially provocative of appetite,
though not restricted to sexual desire. Hence it was called faéida
(aveeyqbnah), desire or appetite, from faa (avah), to desire.

Here, then, we have first the plant or berry put for the condiments
made from it, and then the condiments put for the desire they created.
The meaning is that not only shall appetite or desire fail, but that
condiments and stimulants shall be powerless to produce their usual
effect.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] makes the sentence
absurd by translating the figure literally: “The caper-berry shall fail.”
The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] , with its elegant idiomatic version, much better conveys
the essential meaning of the passage: “And desire shall fail.”

Isa. 33:15.-“That stoppeth his ears from hearing of bloods.” Here,
“bloods” is first put for blood-shedding, and then blood-shedding is put
for the murderers who shed it. See Pro. 1:11.

In the New Testament, the expression “the blood of Christ” is the
figure Metalepsis; because first the “blood” is put (by Synecdoche) for
blood-shedding: i.e., the death of Christ, as distinct from His life; and
then His death is put for the perfect satisfaction made by it, for all the
merits of the atonement effected by it: /е., it means not merely the
actual blood corpuscles, neither does it mean His death as an act, but
the merits of the atonement effected by it and associated with it.
Hos. 14:2 (3).-“So will we render the calves of our lips.” Here, “calves”
are put by Metonymy (of Subject) for sacrifices, and then, by another
Metonymy, these sacrifices are put for the confession and praises
rendered. See under Metonymy, pages 574 and 575.
Rom. 3:25.-“Through faith in his blood”: i.e., through faith in the merits
of the atonement accomplished by it.
Rom. 5:9.-“Being now justified by his blood”: i.e., his atonement.
Eph. 1:7.-“Redemption through his blood”: i.e., through the merits of
His atoning death.
Eph. 2:13.-"But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometimes were far off
are made nigh by the blood of Christ’: i.e., by His death, not by His
life: yet not by His death alone, but by the atonement made in His
obedient act in dying for His people.

So Col. 1:14; Col. 1:20. Heb. 9:12; Heb. 9:14; Heb. 10:19; Heb.
12:24; Heb. 13:12. 1Pe. 1:2; 1Pe. 1:19.
1Jn. 1:7.-"The blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all
sin.” Here, when it is a question of “walking in the light,” the saved
sinner is reminded of that which put him there and which alone can
keep him there. Whereas, in chapter 2:1 where it is a question of sin
(“If any man sin”), the sinful child is reminded, not of the blood, but of
the Father, with whom Christ, the righteous One, is the Advocate, to
show that relationship has not been broken.

Rev. 1:5.-“Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his
own blood”: i.e., loosed us from our sins by His atonement, which was
accomplished by His death (reading λύσαντι (/usanti), freed, instead of
λούσαντι (lousanti), washed, with all the Critical Texts and R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] ).

Here note that ἐν (en), whose first meaning is in, must not be so
taken here, or in all the parallel passages; we must take it as meaning
by or through, a meaning which it frequently has: e.g., Mat. 9:34 : “He
casteth out devils through (ἐν) the prince of the devils.” Mat. 5:34-35 :
“Swear not at all, neither by (ἐν) heaven ... nor by (ἐν) the earth.” Gal.
3:11 : “No man is justified by (ἐν) the law.” 2Ti. 2:10 : “Salvation which
is in (ἐν) Christ Jesus”: i.e., by or through Him; in virtue of His atoning
death. In this very book (Rev. 5:9), it is rendered “by thy blood.”

So, here, in Rev. 1:5, it must not be rendered “in his blood,” which
is not only contrary to Old Testament type (where nothing was ever
washed in blood! which would have defiled and made unclean instead
of cleansing!) but is contrary to the letter as well as the spirit of the
Word. Rev. 1:5 means washed us or loosed us from our sins by, or in
virtue of, through the merits of, His atonement. So Rev. 7:14.

So that such expressions are to be avoided, as “Washed in the
blood of the Lamb”; and the sentiment contained in the verse:-

“There is a fountain filled with blood,

Drawn from Immanuel’s veins:
And sinners plunged beneath that flood,
Lose all their guilty stains.”

All such expressions are contrary to physiology and common
sense.

We lose nothing of the facts, but gain immensely as to their
meaning, when we understand that, by Metalepsis, “blood” is put for
death, and “death” for the atonement made by it and all its infinite
merits.

In like manner “the Cross” is put first for the crucifixion as an act,
or for Him who was crucified thereon: and then this is put for the
resulting merits of His atonements procured thereby.

1Со. 1:17-18.-‘The preaching of the cross.” Paul did not preach the
cross, nor did he speak merely of the crucifixion (2:2), but of all the
blessed results, not only of that death, but of the resurrection also.
Gal. 6:14.-“God forbid that | should glory, save in the cross of our Lord
Jesus Christ”: i.e., not the wooden instrument of death, nor the act of
crucifixion; but he gloried in all that this meant for him, all the precious
merits of Christ’s atonement and the blessings resulting from it.

Col. 1:20.-“And, having made peace through the blood of his cross.”
Here, again, “cross” is put for His death, and His death is put for all its
meritorious results.

It is by forcing the word “cross” into a literal meaning in such
passages as the above that the Church of Rome has appeared to
have a Scriptural sanction for its reverence for and adoration of “the
cross.”
The reader may easily see where the word “cross” is used literally
and historically and where it is used figuratively. If the latter be
substituted for the former, not only shall we introduce much error, but
we shall lose much of precious Scriptural truth and teaching.

Synecdoché; or, Transfer

The exchange of one idea for another associated idea

Syn-ek’-do-kee. Greek, συνεκδοχή, from σύν (sun), together with, and
ἐκδοχή, a receiving from. A figure by which one word receives
something from another which is internally associated with it by the
connection of two ideas: as when a part of a thing is put by a kind of
Metonymy for the whole of it, or the whole for a part. The difference
between Metonymy and Synecdoché lies in this; that in Metonymy, the
exchange is made between two related nouns; while in Synecdoché,
the exchange is made between two associated ideas.

Synecdoché of the Genus is where the genus is put for a species.
