Scriptures might have hope.”

Here there are two things, not one, because comforting is not a
proper qualification of patience.

In reading this verse, therefore, a pause must be made after the
word “patience” (which we possess), so as to distinguish it from the
“comfort” (which the Scriptures give).

In most cases, the context and the analogy of Scripture will decide
the doubt.

Some of the examples we present more by way of suggestion than
actual illustration. About most of them there can be no doubt: but a
few (such as Gen. 2:9) may be open to question; and these are
submitted for the judgment and consideration of the reader.

1. Nouns
Gen. 1:26.-“Let us make man in our image, after our likeness”: i.e., in
the likeness of our image.* [Note: “Image” is 6éi (tzelem), 71®
(θἰκῴη), 10ο. 11:7; Col. 3:10. “Likeness” is aild (d’mbith), ὅσα ὅιο
(homoicbsis), Jam. 3:9.] Not two things but one, though two words are
employed.

Gen. 2:9.-“The tree of knowledge of good and evil’: /е., of evil
enjoyment.

Gen. 3:16.-“Multiplying | will multiply (/.e., “I will greatly multiply,” see
Polyptoton) thy sorrow and thy conception”: i.e., thy sorrow, yes-and
thy conceiving sorrow too: [for] “in sorrow thou shalt bring forth
children.”
Gen. 4:4.-“And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and
of the fat thereof”: i.e., he brought the firstlings of his flock, yes-and
the fattest ones too, or the fattest firstlings of his flock, with the
emphasis on “fattest.”

Gen. 19:24.-“Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah
brimstone and fire from the Lord out of heaven”: {6., brimstone, yes-
and burning brimstone too; or, simply “burning brimstone” with
emphasis on “burning.”

1Sa. 17:40.-“And put them in his shepherd’s vessel and in his
leather bag”: i.e., in his shepherd’s leather bag. This is the “scrip” of
Mat. 10:10. Mar. 6:8. Luk. 22:35-36.

1Sa. 28:3.-They “buried him in Ramah and his own city”: ie., in
Ramah, yes-even in his own city; or, in his own city, Ramah.

2Sa. 20:19.-“Thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel”:
ie., a city, yes-and a mother city too; * [Note: In the same way
“villages” are called daughters (Num. 21:25; Num. 21:32; Num. 32:42.
Jos. 17:11. Jdg. 11:26.] or, a metropolitan city. Neither the A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
nor R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] sees the figure here; but
both translate the words literally, though the figure is obvious.
1Ki. 20:33.-“Now the men divined and hasted”: i.e., divined, yes-and
quickly too; or, as in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “diligently observed,” with the
emphasis on the word diligently. See Ginsburg’s Introduction, page
438.

1Ch. 22:5.-“Of fame and of glory’; i.e., of glorious fame.

2Ch. 2:9.-“The house which | am about to build, shall be great and
wonderful.” (Heb., see margin).

Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] sees the figure, and translates it accordingly:
“shall be wonderful great.” The exact sense, however, is “shall be
great, yes-and wonderfully great too.”
2Ch. 16:14.-“Sweet odours and divers kinds”: i.e., sweet odours, yes-
and of all manner of kinds.

Job. 10:17.-“Changes and war are against me”: i.e., changes, yes-
and warlike ones too-are against me: i.e., successive changes of
attack. Or it may be read: “changes, aye-a host of them.”

Job. 10:21.-“Before | go whence | shall not return, even to the land of
darkness and the shadow of death”: {6., the land of darkness, yes-
and the darkness of death’s shadow too. Compare Psa. 23:4; and see
under Periphrasis.

Psa. 74:16.-“Thou hast prepared the light and the sun”: i.e., sunlight.

Psa. 96:7.-“Give unto the Lord glory and strength”: {6., glory, yes-
and great glory too. See under Metonymy.

Psa. 116:1.-“I love the Lord, because he hath heard my voice and my
supplications”: i.e., my supplicating voice, with emphasis on
“supplicating.”

Psa. 119:138.-“Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are
righteous and very faithful.” So the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] correctly according to the
figure. But, literally, this verse reads: “Thou hast commanded the
righteousness of thy testimonies and faithfulness exceeding” (see
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] margin): i.e., thy testimonies, yes-thy exceeding faithful
testimonies.

Isa. 1:13.-“l am not able [fo endure] your iniquity and assembly”: i.e.,
your iniquity, yes-your iniquitous assemblies, or your festal iniquity.
See R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , and margin, and
also A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] ‚ for the confusion and obscurity through failing to see the
combined figures of Ellipsis and Hendiadys in this sentence.

Jer. 22:3.-“Execute ye judgment and righteousness’: {6., execute
ye judgment, yea-and righteous judgment too.

Jer. 22:15.-“And do judgment and justice”: i.e., execute judgment,
yes-and righteous judgment too.

Jer. 29:11.-“I know the thoughts that | think toward you, saith the Lord,
thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an end and
expectation.”

Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] gives this in the margin, and translates it “to give
you an expected end.” The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

renders it “o give you hope in your latter end,” and puts in the margin
“Heb., a latter end and hope.”

All this is a recognition of the difficulty, without grasping or catching
the spirit of the figure: “to give you the end, yes-the end you hope for”:
i.e., the end which | have promised and on which | have caused you to
hope and depend. All this, and more, is contained in and expressed by
the figure Hendiadys.

Jer. 36:27.-“Then the word of Jehovah came to Jeremiah after that the
king had burned the roll and the words which Baruch wrote”: i.e., the
roll, yes-and the roll that contained the words of Jehovah too.

Dan. 8:10.-“It cast down some of the host and of the stars”: {6., of
the starry host. Only one thing, not two.

Zep. 1:16.-“A day of trumpet and alarm”: i.e., of the trumpet, yes-and
an alarming trumpet too.

Mat. 3:11.-“He shall baptize with the Holy Ghost and with fire.”

First observe that there are no articles. It is ἐν mMveUpaT! ἁγίῳ καὶ
Tupi (en pneumati hagiqb kai puri), with Holy Spirit and fire: i.e., with
Holy Spirit, yes-and burning purifying spirit too. Not two things, but one
thing: Judgment!

The contrast is with John’s baptism, which was with water which
mingled together the chaff and the wheat (as the water sign has done
in all ages). But the new baptism of Christ should not be like that. It
would separate the chaff from the wheat by burning it up, as the
Baptist goes on to declare, without a break in his words: “whose fan is
in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat
into his garner: but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.”
The “fire” in verse 11 is different from the “fire” in verse 12. In verse 11
it is a figure for purifying and cleansing; and in verse 12 it is a literal
fire that is meant. But the effect of its operations are the same in each
case.

The Baptist is speaking, not of the Church, but of Christ and His
kingdom, as was prophesied in Isa. 4:3-4 : “And it shall come to pass
that he that is left in Zion, and he that remaineth in Jerusalem, shall be
called holy, even every one that is written among the living in
Jerusalem: when the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the
daughters of Zion, and shall have purged the blood of Jerusalem from
the midst thereof by the spirit of judgment and by the spirit of
burning’: i.e., by spirit of judgment-His consuming.

This is the purging of the floor, and the burning up of the chaff,
which the Baptist speaks of in verse 12. John only foretold it; but
Christ shall do it in the day referred to in Isa. 4:1-6
“The Spirit” is the Worker, and “the fire” denotes His operations,
searching, consuming, and purifying. The day of the Lord’s coming will
be “like a refiner’s fire ... And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of
silver: and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and. purge them as gold
and silver” (Mal. 3:1-4). That day “shall burn as an oven; and all the
proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble (as in Mat. 3:12):
and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts.”
Mal. 4:1 (3:19).

That future judgment is referred to, and not any ecclesiastical
ordinance, is clear from verse 10.

When the future baptism of the members of Christ’s mystical body
with the Holy Spirit is spoken of there is no mention of or reference to
fire.

Christ “fans” to get rid of the chaff. Satan “sifts” to get rid of the
wheat (Luk. 22:31).

Mat. 4:16.-“In a region and shadow of death.” This does not denote
two places, but one: in a region, yes-in death’s dark region too, as is
clear from Isa. 9:1-2 (8:23-9:1).

Mat. 24:30.-“They shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of
heaven with power and great glory”: i.e., with power, yes-with great
and glorious power.
Mat. 24:31.-“And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a
trumpet.” In the margin we learn that the Greek is “with a trumpet and
a great voice.” Here, it is clear that we have not two things but one: “a
trumpet, yes-and a great sounding trumpet too.”
Both the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our

English Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]

recognize the Figure Hendiadys here. But the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] gives
the literal Greek (according to one reading) in the margin; while the
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] gives as an alternative
rendering, “Or, a trumpet of great sound’; which represents the
change of the second noun into an adjective in a different way.

Luk. 1:17.-“He shall go before Him in the spirit and power of Elijah”:
ie., in spirit, yes-in Elijah’s powerful spirit too.

Luk. 21:15.-“For | will give you a mouth and wisdom’: i.e., a mouth
(Metonymy, for speech), yes-and a wise mouth too; such wisdom of
speech that “all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor
resist.”
Joh. 1:17.-“The law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came
by Jesus Christ.” This must be the figure Hendiadys, because
otherwise the words taken literally would not be true to fact.

Was there no “grace” in the Law? How came only Israel to have it
and not the Babylonians, Egyptians, Philistines, Assyrians, etc.? Yes;
it was all grace: as God asks and tells them so earnestly and so often;
in Deu. 4:32-40, and other places.

And was there no “truth” in the Law? Yes; surely, every word was
truth.

But, in Joh. 1:17, the contrast is between one thing that was given
by Moses, and another and a different thing that came by Jesus
Christ.

The figure Hendiadys explains the difficulty and sheds light on the
verse.

The Law was given by Moses, and there was grace in it; and
moreover it was truth itself: “but grace, yes-and true grace too (the
real thing) came by Jesus Christ.

Joh. 3:5.-This is literally, “Except a man shall have been begotten of
water and spirit.” There is no article to either of the two nouns.

That only one thing is meant by the two words is clear from verses
6 and 8, where only the Spirit (the one) is mentioned.
The Lord is speaking to Nicodemus of “earthly things” (see verse
12). And as “a master in Israel,” he knew (or ought to have known)
perfectly well the prophecy of Eze. 36:25-27 concerning the kingdom
(not the Church). Concerning Israel, in the day of their restoration to
their own land, Jehovah had declared: “Then will | sprinkle clean water
upon you, and ye shall be clean ... And | will put my spirit within you,”
etc.

The cleansing of that day is not to be with literal water, as in the
ceremonial cleansings of the Law, but with the Spirit of God.

Hence only one thing is meant:-“Except a man be begotten of
water, yes-and spiritual water too, he cannot enter into the kingdom of
God.” That spiritual water stands, by another figure (Metonymy), for
the Holy Spirit Himself: as is clear from Joh. 7:38-39 : “water-(But this
spake He of the Spirit, which they that believe on Him should receive

Hence there is no reference here to ceremonial or ecclesiastical
water-but to that baptism of the Spirit which is the one indispensable
condition of entering into the kingdom of God; a moral sphere, which
includes and embraces the Church of God, here and now, as well as
the future kingdom foretold by God through the prophets.
Joh. 4:21-24.-The one subject of these verses is-What is true
worship? its nature and its character. It was the sixth word of the Lord
Jesus to the woman of Samaria: “Woman, believe me, the hour
cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem,
worship the Father. Ye (Samaritans) worship ye know not what: we
(Jews) know what we worship: for salvation is of (i.e., proceeds from)
the Jews. But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers
shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh
such to worship Him. God is a spirit (i.e., a Spiritual Being): and they
that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth.”

Here, notice first that there is only one preposition (év, en), “in,” for
the two nouns. It is not to be repeated as in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] It is “in
spirit and truth.” Moreover, one of the usages of this preposition with
the noun turns it into an adverb: so that “in spirit” means “spiritually”:
i.e., in accordance with another of its meanings, with the spirit, or with
our spirits. Then, the figure Hendiadys comes in to strengthen this.
“God is a Spirit! and they that worship Him must worship Him
spiritually, yes-in a truly spiritual manner too.”
Observe, further, that the Lord says, “MUST”! There is nothing left
to our choice or taste in the matter. This “great rubrick” overrides all
others: so that it is of no use for anyone to say: “I like this form of
service,” or “I prefer that kind of service.” It says, “MUST”! God is a
Spirit, and therefore He cannot be worshipped by the flesh: i.e., by
means of any of our senses, which are essentially of the flesh. We
cannot worship God with our eyes, by looking at decorations, however
beautiful; we cannot worship Him with our ears, by listening to music,
however ravishing; we cannot worship Him with our noses, by the
smelling of incense, however sweet; no! not by any separately or by
all of them together can we worship a Spiritual Being. All such things
are, really, only hindrances; which are destructive of all true spiritual
worship. We, who cannot pray or listen to a prayer without wandering
thoughts, need no such temptations to attract or distract our spirits
from doing that which God can alone accept. It is a positive cruelty to
professing worshippers to present anything to their senses. It is a
device of the devil to destroy spiritual worship, and to render
obedience to this great rubric impossible. Hence this impressive figure
used here, in conjunction with the word “MUST.” It is the same word
as in chap. 3:7: “Ye MUST be born again”; and chap. 3:14: “The Son
of man MUST be lifted up.” So here, in the next chap., 4:24: “They that
worship God, who is a spirit, MUST worship Him with the spirit, yes-
really and truly with the spirit.” See further under Hyperbaton; which is
used in this verse in order to enchance and enforce this interpretation
of these words.

Act. 1:25.-“That he may take part of this ministry and apostleship,
from which Judas by trangression fell”: i.e., this ministry, yes-this
apostolic ministry, with emphasis on the adjective “apostolic,” which is
obtained by exchange for the noun.

Act. 3:14.-“But ye denied the Holy One and the Just.” Here, it is
perfectly clear that only One Person is meant, though two are
apparently described: i.e., “ye denied the Holy One, yes-the righteous
Holy One, and desired a murderer (an unrighteous criminal) to be
granted unto you.” By the use of this figure here the contrast between
that “righteous” one and the criminal is strongly marked and
emphasized.

Act. 14:13.-“Then the priest of Jupiter which was (i.e., whose statue
stood) before their city, brought oxen and garlands unto the gates,
and would have done sacrifice.”

In the heathen worship, the victim to be sacrificed was always
decorated with a garland immediately before the sacrifice took place,
as may be seen to-day in pictures and sculptures. There were two
things then brought by the priest, but there is only one idea; and the
figure tells us and shows us that every arrangement had been made,
and that all was ready; nothing hindered the immediate offering of the
sacrifice. “The priest ... brought oxen, yes-and they had their garlands
on too.” All this gives a vivid picture; and the whole scene is presented
to our minds by the employment of this simple yet beautiful and
expressive figure, “oxen and garlands.”

Act. 23:6.-“Of the hope and resurrection of the dead | am called in
question”: i.e., of the hope, yes-the resurrection hope ... am | called in
question.

Rom. 1:5.-“By whom we have received grace and apostleship”: i.e.,
grace, yes-and apostolic grace too.

Rom. 2:27.-“Letter and circumcision.” See under Ellipsis, page 23.
Rom. 11:17.-“And with them partakest of the root and the fatness of
the olive tree”: i.e., the root, yes-and the fat or prolific root; or the rich
blessings which come forth from that root.* [Note: See Article on “The
Fig, the Olive, and the Vine” in Things to Come for July, 1899.]

1Со. 2:4.-“In demonstration of the Spirit and of power”: {6., of the
Spirit, yes-of the power of the Spirit too.

1Co. 11:7.-‘Forasmuch as he is the image and glory ({6., the
glorious image) of God.”

Eph. 4:11.-“And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and
some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers”: i.e., pastors (or
shepherds), yes-shepherds who should feed too; or teachers, yes-
teachers who should shepherd too. Not two classes of persons, but
one; implying that a shepherd who did not feed would fail in his duty;
and so would a teacher who failed to be a pastor.

Eph. 5:5.-“Hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of
God”: i.e., the kingdom of Christ, yes-of Christ who is truly God.

Eph. 6:18.-“Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the
Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and
supplication for all saints’: /е., praying with all prayer (this is
Polyploton, q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) and supplication: i.e., prayer, yes-
with supplicating prayer too; and watching thereunto with every kind of
supplication, yes, with persevering supplication too.

Col. 2:8.-“Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and
vain deceit.”

Here, we have not two things, but one: through philosophy, yes-a
vain, deceitful philosophy too.

Col. 2:18.-“Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary
humility and worshipping of angels, intruding into those things which
he hath not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind.”

The marginal notes in A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] show the difficulties created by not seeing the
Hendiadys here.

It is certain that θρησκεία (threeskeia) means religion (not
worship), and is so rendered in all the other places where it occurs
(see Act. 26:5. Jam. 1:26-27). It must be so rendered here: “humility
and religion”: i.e., humility, yes-the religious humility of angels.

If we observe this figure, it throws all the other words into their
right places, and enables us to give them their right meanings. This
gives sense also to the reading of all the Textual Critics, and with the
Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] in omitting the negative µή
(mee) before the word “seen.” It also saves our having to condemn
these Colossian saints for angel-worship! Surely there is nothing in
this epistle to warrant the conclusion that they had fallen as low as
that | The passage is a warning to the saints who had been well-
instructed as to their standing in Christ that they were not to forget in
their worshipping the Father that they had a higher standing than that
of angels, even that of beloved sons, in the acceptance of “the
Beloved One.” They had “boldness of access” as sons, and not merely
that which pertained to “angels” as messengers.

We cannot think that this is a mere warning not to make angels an
object of worship. Such a thought is far below the whole scope and
teaching of the epistle.
The verse then will read: “Let no one deprive you of your prize,
having pleasure in (so Lightfoot) the religious humility of angels, taking
his stand upon (so R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] margin)
the things which he hath seen, vainly puffed up by the mind of his
flesh (i.e., by his old nature) and not holding the head,” etc.

If we hold the great truth of the “Mystery” concerning the Head and
members of the Body of Christ, we shall understand and take our
proper standing before God, which He himself has given us.

To cease from “holding the Head” is to lose practically all our
special privileges as members of His Body. It is to take up an attitude
before God, in our access to Him, below that in which His love and
grace has set us. It is to take the place of religious humility as the
angels, as servants instead of sons-even the sons of God. It is to
worship with veiled faces at a distance, instead of with unveiled faces,
beholding the glory of the Lord. It is a reigned humility, not
apprehending the exceeding riches of the grace of God toward us in
Christ Jesus; which is sure to issue in a regard for visible things and
religious ordinances which are the natural objects of the fleshly mind
(the Old nature), the only things which it can comprehend or
understand. Hence the theme of ordinances being done away in
Christ follows in verses 11-15. “Which sort of things have indeed an
appearance of wisdom in self-devised religious observances and
humiliation (of mind) and discipline (of the body); yet are not really of
any value to remedy indulgence of the flesh* [Note: See R.V. and
Lightfoot (Com. in loco) for this beautiful and happy rendering.] (ie.,
the Old nature).”

The exhortation is plural; but the warning is directed against some
individual, who, puffed up and led by his Old nature, would fain teach
them that as angels in their worship “veiled their faces” and take the
most humble place, therefore it was only becoming that they should
do the same. These were the only things which the “flesh” could see;
this was the standing that the flesh would fain take! But they were not
to be thus defrauded of that high calling and standing which they had
in Christ, and which enabled them to draw near with boldness to the
throne of grace.
1Th. 2:12.-“That ye would walk worthy of God, who hath called you
unto his kingdom and glory”: i.e., his kingdom, yes-his glorious
kingdom too; or, his glorious kingdom, with emphasis on the word
“glorious.”
1Ti. 3:15.-“The Church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the
truth.”

This is spoken of “the truth”-“the mystery of the faith” (verse 9),
and “the mystery” which is “confessedly great” (verse 16). This is the
pillar, yes-the great foundation pillar of the truth: i.e., Christ Mystical,
as set forth in verse 16.* [Note: See The Mystery, by the same author
and publisher. Price sixpence.]

2Ti. 1:10.-“Our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death and
hath brought life and immortality to light”: /е., life, yes-and immortal
life too.

2Ti. 4:1-2.-This verse requires re-translating; owing to the Figures,
and the older readings witnessed to by the Critical Texts and the R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
“| adjure thee, therefore, before God, yes-Christ Jesus, | mean
(1Ti. 5:21), who is about to judge the living and dead; and [/ adjure
thee] by His appearing, yes-and His royal appearing too, Preach the
Word.” For this judgment shall be when He “shall sit upon the throne
of His glory,” not in the act of His first shining forth at His epiphaneia.
The adjuration is similar to Deu. 4:26; Deu. 30:19; Deu. 31:28, and is
called forth by the fact that the Scriptures are God-breathed and
profitable. “Therefore” it is that “I adjure thee” to preach the word. The
solemn adjuration is needed, because of the fact that “the time will
come when they will not endure sound teaching.” This is no reason
why preachers should seek for something that men will endure, but it
is given as the very reason why the word of God and that alone should
be persistently proclaimed and taught. It is a reason so strange that
the charge has to be set in the full view of coming judgment. Hence, in
verses 1 and 8, the fact of judgment is twice stated. The charge is
beset with judgment before and behind.

The figure Hendiadys, which the Spirit twice employs to enhance
the force of the words, the enemy uses to obscure it; trading by his
devices on the ignorance of those who profess to be preachers of this
Word.

Tit. 2:13.-“Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing.”
Not two things but one: our hope is the glorious appearing!
The latter clause is also Hendiadys: One Person being meant, not
two: the appearing of the great God, yes-even our Saviour Jesus
Christ: i.e., our Divine Saviour.

Jam. 3:9.-“Therewith bless we God, even the Father.” Lit., the God
and Father: i.e., God, yes-even that God who is our Father.

2Pe. 1:3.-“Through the knowledge of him who hath called us to glory
and virtue.”

But the Greek is “by,” as stated in the margin, διά (dia) with the
genitive, denoting the cause or instrument. The R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] renders it “by his own glory and virtue” (and
tells us, in the margin, that “some ancient authorities read through
glory and virtue”), translating the figure literally, and (like the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] ), missing the force of it.

But it is one thing, not two.

Note that the Critical Texts read idia (idee), his own, instead of διά
(dia), through, the dative case denoting the agency, by.

Note also that ἀρετή (aretee) means goodness, excellence in art
or workmanship; goodness, as shown by the possession of reputation
bravery and merit. This is what God has called His people by: His own
goodness, will and power, yes-His glorious power too; His own
excellent workmanship, His own gracious dealing.

2Pe. 1:16.-“When we made known unto you the power and coming”:
ie., either the coming power, or the powerful coming, or both.

2Pe. 1:17.-“For he received from God the Father honour and glory”:
i.e., honour, yes-and glorious honour too.

Christ received this glorious honour, which was put upon Him, “on
the holy mount’ of transfiguration.

The wondrous act which there took place was the official anointing,
appointing, and consecrating of Christ for His Priestly office and
sacrificial work. The only subject spoken of on that mount was “the
Exodus which He should accomplish at Jerusalem” (Luk. 9:31). Not
the death to which man should put Him, but “which He should
accomplish” Himself. Heb. 2:9 distinctly tells us why Christ was thus
crowned: 2Pe. 1:17-18, tells us where.
It tells us that He was made a little lower than the angels for the
suffering of death; crowned with glory and honour, that He, by the
grace of God, should taste death for every man” (see Synecdoché).

This is confirmed by Exo. 28:2, where we are distinctly told that,
when Aaron was consecrated to his priestly office, “that he may
minister unto me in the priest's office,” “thou (Moses) shalt make holy
garments for Aaron thy brother, for glory and for beauty.” Here are the
same two words, τιµὴ καὶ δόξα (timee kai doxa), for honour, yes-and
for glorious honour too!

Can we resist the conclusion that on the Holy Mount the Lord

Jesus was thus consecrated for His (Melchisedekian) priesthood.
True, Moses was there, and Elijah; but this glorious honour with which
Christ was clothed and crowned was put upon Him by no earthly
hands. It came “from the excellent glory."* [Note: For further
elucidation of the Transfiguration and its objects, see Christ’s
Prophetic Teaching, by the same author and publisher.]
Rev. 5:10.-Here we must adopt the rendering of the R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] : “And madest them to be unto our God a
kingdom and priests, and they reign upon the earth”: i.e., a kingdom,
yes-and a great priestly kingdom too, the plural “priests” being put by
Heterosis for the singular, denoting the greatness.
2. Verbs

Mat. 13:23.-The Hendiadys is disguised in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
through the separation of the two words: “He that was sown upon the
good ground, this is he who hears and understands the word.” The
person who heareth and understandeth is one. One act is meant, and
not two. All hear, but this one heareth, yes-and understandeth it too.
Luk. 6:48.-“He is like a man ... who dug and deepened, and laid the
foundation on the rock.”

Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] renders it: “and digged deep.” The R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] : “who digged and went deep.”

It is clear that we have the figure Hendiadys in the two verbs: the
man digged, yes-and very deep; deeper and deeper indeed till he got
to the rock itself.

Act. 9:31.-“Then ... the churches ... were edified and walking in the
fear of the Lord ... were multiplied.

Here, in the Received Text, the verbs are not in the same
inflection. But the Critical Texts (L. [Note: . Lachmann and his critical
Greek Text.] T. [Note: . Tischendorf and his critical Greek Text.] Tr.
[Note: r. Tregelles and his critical Greek Text.] A. [Note: . Alford and
his critical Greek Text.] WH. [Note: H. Westcott and Hort, and their
critical Greek Text.] , and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] )
read: οἰκοδομουμένη Kai  πορευοµένη (oikodomoumenee — kai
poreuomenee), being built up and progressing: i.e., being built up,
yes-and increasingly so too.

Note also that the Critical Texts read: ἐκκλησία (ecclesia) assembly
(instead of plural); and ἐπκηθύνετο (epleethuneto), was multiplied
(instead of plural).

Act. 13:41.-“Behold, ye despisers, and wonder and perish: {6.,
perish, yes-and perish wonderfully too.

1Th. 4:1.-“As ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to
please God”: i.e., how ye ought to walk, yes-and how to please God in
your walk, with emphasis on the verb fo please.
2Pe. 3:12.-“Looking for, and hasting unto the coming of the day of
God.” Here, “looking for’ is προσδοκάω (prosdokaq),* [Note: Mat.
11:3; Mat. 24:50. Luk. 1:21; Luk. 3:15; Luk. 7:19-20; Luk. 8:40; Luk.
12:46. Act. 3:5; Act. 10:24; Act. 27:33; Act. 28:6 (twice). 2Pe. 3:12-14.]
and “hasting” is σπεύδω (δρειαφ), to hasten. Everywhere elset
[Note: Luk. 2:16; Luk. 19:5-6. Act. 20:16; Act. 22:18.] the latter verb is
intransitive; but here it is transitive to correspond with “looking for,”
and means {ο be eager or earnest for a thing. № qualifies the “looking
for’ and not the “coming” itself: i.e., looking for, yes-and earnestly
looking for that coming too.

We cannot hasten that day, which is fixed in the counsels of God,
but we can be more eager and earnest in our looking for it. The R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] has “earnestly desiring the
coming.” This is better; but it is stronger when we recognize the figure-
looking for and being earnest for, which is the figure Hendiadys;
earnestly looking for, with the emphasis on earnestly.

Rev. 20:4.-“And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years”:
ie., they lived, yes-and they reigned too.

Rev. 22:17.-“And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever willeth,
let him take.” Not two classes of persons, but one. Not thirsty ones
who do not will; or willing ones who do not thirst; but willing thirsty
ones, let them come: See under Epistrophe.

Hendiatris; or, Three for One

Three words used, but one thing meant
Though the Greeks did not name such a figure, it is clear that it is
employed in Scripture. For we sometimes find three nouns instead of
two, and in these cases there are two nouns exalted to the place of
emphatic adjectives, which are thus raised to equal importance with
the subject itself.
Jer. 4:2.-“And thou shalt swear, The Lord liveth, in truth, in judgment,
and in righteousness”: {6., thou shalt swear, in truth (/.e., truly, yes-
justly and righteously).

In swearing by Jehovah in truth, justice and righteousness is
included; not only that people swear the truth (Lev. 19:12. Num. 30:3.
Jer. 5:2. Mat. 5:33), but also that they swear by Jehovah alone (i.e.,
justly and righteously), and not by idols also, as, according to Zep. 1:5,
