ones, let them come: See under Epistrophe.

Hendiatris; or, Three for One

Three words used, but one thing meant
Though the Greeks did not name such a figure, it is clear that it is
employed in Scripture. For we sometimes find three nouns instead of
two, and in these cases there are two nouns exalted to the place of
emphatic adjectives, which are thus raised to equal importance with
the subject itself.
Jer. 4:2.-“And thou shalt swear, The Lord liveth, in truth, in judgment,
and in righteousness”: {6., thou shalt swear, in truth (/.e., truly, yes-
justly and righteously).

In swearing by Jehovah in truth, justice and righteousness is
included; not only that people swear the truth (Lev. 19:12. Num. 30:3.
Jer. 5:2. Mat. 5:33), but also that they swear by Jehovah alone (i.e.,
justly and righteously), and not by idols also, as, according to Zep. 1:5,
they did in his day.* [Note: Scott, Com. in loco.]

Dan. 3:7.-“All the people, the nations, and the languages fell down
and worshipped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had
set up.”

Now “languages” do not fall down; neither do they worship;
Therefore the words are used as a figure, and the figure is Hendiatris:
All the people, yes-and people of all nations and languages, fell down
and worshipped.

Mat. 6:13.-“For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory”:
ie., for thine is the kingdom, yes-and the powerful and glorious
kingdom too.

Joh. 14:6.-“I am the way, and the truth, and the life.” This is hidden
in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] which ignores the first “and.”

The whole subject of conversation here is Christ as “the way.” See
the context. We have here therefore another example of Hendiadiatris:
“lam the way, yes-the true and living way; for no man cometh unto the
Father, but by me.”

Of course, Christ is the “truth,” as He is also the “life”: but this is
not what is stated in this verse. Here, only one subject is in question:
viz., “the way”; and the other two nouns are used to define its true
nature and character.
Catachresis; or, Incongruity
One word changed for another only remotely connected with it
