Gen. 15:15.-“Thou shalt go to thy fathers”: i.e., shalt die.

Gen. 42:38.-“Then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to
the grave”: i.e., ye will kill me.

Jdg. 3:24.-“Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.”
When an Eastern stoops down, his garments fall over and cover his
feet. Hence the Euphemy, the meaning of which is given in the
margin. See also 1Sa. 24:3.

2Sa. 18:32.-David enquired of Cushi: “Is the young man Absalom
safe? And Cushi answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all
that rise against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is.”

Thus, by two beautiful Euphemisms, Cushi reminded David of
Absalom’s treason and its deserts, while he also intimated that he had
been slain.

Rth. 3:9.-“Spread ... thy skirt over thine handmaid”: i.e., receive me in
the way of marriage.

2Ki. 22:20.-“I will gather thee unto thy fathers (i.e., thou shalt die), and
thou shalt be gathered into thy grave (i.e., be buried) in peace.”

Neh. 4:23 (17).-“None of us put off our clothes, saving that every one
put them off. for washing.” (Margin, every one went with his weapon
for water.)

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] is no clearer: “None
of us put off our clothes, every one went with his weapon to the
water”; and puts it in the margin: “The text is probably faulty”! This is
like man; who always thinks the fault is in the Text instead of in
himself. When he meets with a difficulty, it never dawns on him that
the difficulty lies in his own head, or is of his own creating!

The Hebrew is literally: “None of us put off our clothes; each man
went with his weapon (or tool) and water”: i.e., he discharged his
water as he was (or as he stood): i.e., there was neither time nor
opportunity for retiring and for that laborious arrangement of the
clothes which an Eastern requires. And thus the simple Euphemy is
most expressive, and explains, instead of needing an explanation
(which after all does not explain)!
Glassius would treat the word “water” as a Synecdoche by which
“water,” the most important part of a man’s ration, is put for all of it.
“This would require the translation: “Each one went with his sword and
water”: i.e., one single weapon and one measured ration, “water”
being used alone for a measured ration, as it was a very important
part of the rations served out. Just as “salt” was served and measured
out to the Roman soldiers, and afterwards was used by Synecdoche
of the whole ration of which it was a part. Hence our term “salt-
money”; and the Latin, sa/arium, and English, salary. When we say “a
man is not worth his salt,” we preserve this Synecdoche; and, putting
a part for the whole, we mean that he is not worth his salary.

So it may be here in Neh. 4:23. The A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] , with these marginal renderings, clearly
show that something more is meant than what is said. But we believe
that the figure of Euphemy sufficiently and satisfactorily explains it.

There is, however, something to be said for Glassius’s suggestion
as to Synecdoche.

One thing is clear, which makes either figure explain or express
the one fact that is specially emphasized: viz., that Nehemiah and his
companions were building the wall with a trowel in one hand and a
sword in the other (4:17 (11), etc). So exigent were the circumstances
that they worked all night, and could take with them no armour or
supplies of food. A single weapon and a single ration were all they
could take.

Or so exigent were the circumstances that there was not even the
usual opportunity for performing the functions of nature in the ordinary
way. In either case the figure read in the light of the context shows the
urgency of the circumstances.

Job. 10:21-22.-Here, we have two beautiful Periphrases: “Before | go
whence | shall not return (i.e., before | die), even to the land of
darkness and the shadow of death”: i.e., the grave, etc. So Job. 16:22.
Job. 18:13.-"The first-born of death shall devour his strength”: i.e., the
cruellest and most calamitous death shall destroy him.

Job. 18:14.-Death is called “the king of terrors”: i.e., the terrible king
who claims so many subjects.

Psa. 94:17.-“Unless the Lord had been my help, my soul had almost
(marg., quickly) dwelt in silence”: i.e., | should soon have been dead
and buried.

Isa. 38:10.-“I shall go to the gates of the grave (Sheo/)”: i.e, | shall die.
This explains Mat. 16:18; where the corresponding word (Hades) is
used, and in the same sense: {6., death shall not prevail against the
accomplishment of God’s purposes.

Ecc. 3:21.-See Appendix E, and Erotesis.

Ecc. 12:1-7..We have a series of connected Periphrases and
Euphemisms.

One of them is worthy of a longer notice:-

Ecc. 12:5. - “And desire shall fail.” We have already considered this
under Metalepsis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), because there is a double
Metonymy. But there is a beautiful latent Euphemy as well. The
“caper-berry’ is put for the condiment made from it, and then the
condiment is put for the appetite or desire created by it.

But as this condiment was supposed specially to create sexual
desire, the Euphemy is elegantly expressed in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] (“and
desire shall fail”). The sense is absurdly lost in the R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ; while to make the obscurity caused by the
literal translation still greater, it is suggested in the margin that “fail”
may mean “burst.”
This is certainly one of the many passages in which the A.V. [Note:
The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.]
far exceeds the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] in beauty as
well as accuracy, and shows that the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] is a Version, while
the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] is a Trans/ation.

Mat. 8:11.-“Many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit
down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven.”

This was a beautiful Euphemism; to avoid giving offence (at that
stage of Christ's ministry) to the Jews, who grudged the blessings
being extended to Gentiles.

Mat. 11:19 and Luk. 7:35.-“But wisdom is justified of (or on the part
of) her children.” By this Euphemy the Lord Jesus condemns those
who received Him not.

True wisdom was shown in submitting to the Son of God: “Be wise
now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of the earth.”
These words were written (Psa. 2:10) with special reference to the
reception of the Messiah: and all who were truly wise submitted
themselves. Those who did not are thus rebuked.

Joh. 2:25.-“He knew what was in man.” This is а solemn
condemnation of man; and shows something of his true nature and
character.

Joh. 11:11.-“Our friend Lazarus sleepeth ({6., is dead); but | go, that |
may awake him out of sleep”: i.e., raise him from the dead.

Act. 2:39.-“For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all
that are afar off’: /.е., to the Gentiles. Peter did not wish at that time to
give unnecessary offence.

There are many other Euphemisms which require no explanation,
and which the student will now readily note and mark for himself.