Which see.] ). The difference is that Antiphrasis is used only of single
words or phrases, while /rony is used of connected sentences.
Another difference is that Antiphrasis affects rather the meaning of
words, while /rony affects the application of words.

Hence Antiphrasis is called, by the Latins, PERMUTATIO, or
permutation, because of this change of meaning.
Gen. 3:22.-“Behold, the man is become as one of us”: i.e., he had
become, not necessarily or really “a God,” but what the tempter
promised him; and now he will get the Tempter’s doom and be cast
out from God's presence.
Isa. 44:25.-“That turneth wise men backward”: i.e., those who are
accounted wise by themselves or others. Not those who are truly and
really wise in God's sight. So the word “knowledge” is used in the next
sentence by Antiphrasis.
12" р. ΙΙ. Affecting the Arrangement and Order of Words"
Il. AFFECTING THE ARRANGEMENT AND
ORDER OF WORDS
1. SEPARATE WORDS
Hyperbaton; or, Transposition
The placing of a Word out of its usual order in a Sentence
Hy-per’-ba-ton. Greek, 20е( from 22 (hyper), over, and 5 στ.
(bainein), to step. Hence =)®!'! and Hyperbaton, a stepping over,
transposition.

The figure is so called because the words of a sentence are put
out of their natural and usual grammatical order.

All words are arranged in a sentence according to certain laws,
which have been acquired by usage. These laws are not the same in
all languages, but each language has its own peculiar laws, called
Syntax, which merely means a putting together in order. Even in one
language this order may vary in different stages of its history and
development.

Hyperbaton is a putting together of words in a way contrary to or
different from the usual order. Hence, what is Hyperbaton in one
language may not be Hyperbaton in another.

In English, the arrangement of words in a sentence usually follows
the order of thought. Hence, naturally, the subject (with all that
pertains to it) comes first: i.e., the thing spoken of; then follows the
copula: i.e., the verb, and all words connected with it; and then the
predicate: i.e., something said about the subject, called the object,
with its adjuncts.
