therefore every man must work: for it is not meant that a man’s food is
to be withdrawn from him.

Enthymema; or, Omission of Premiss
En’-thy-mee-ma. Greek ἐνθύμημα, a thought or a consideration.

This is the opposite of Syllogismus.

In Syllogismus, the premisses are stated, but the conclusion is
omitted; while, in Enthymema, the conclusion is stated and one or
both of the premisses omitted.

Both are alike, therefore, in being an abbreviated Syllogism.

It is also related to Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), in
that it is an implication. But in Hypocatastasis it is an ordinary
statement or word which is to be implied; while, in Enthymema it is the
premiss of an argument which is left to be supplied.

The Latins call it COMMENTUM, a thought or a contrivance, and

CONCEPTIO, the wording or drawing up of a statement.

It may be illustrated thus:-“We are dependent; we should,
therefore, be humble.” Here the major premiss is omitted-“dependent
persons should be humble.”

A Biblical example occurs in
Rom. 7:1-6.-Here the fact is asserted that law has dominion over a
man only while he is alive (verse 1), and this fact is applied to those
who died (i.e., were judicially reckoned as having died) when Christ
died. So that all the members of the body of Christ died, and therefore
the law has no logger dominion over them (verses 5, 6).

In proof of this, an illustrative argument is used, as to the case of a
husband and wife. Both are bound to each other by law: and, while
both are alive the union of one of them with another person is
unlawful; but, if one be dead, then such a union on the part of the
survivor is legitimate.

But only one of the cases is given: viz., the death of the husband.

The death of the wife is there, but only in thought; and this other
premiss has to be supplied by the mind in the course of the argument.

So that after the third verse we must add the other premiss in
some such words as these:-

“And if the wife die, | need not say that she is free’; or, “but it goes
without saying that if the wife die, of course she is free.”

Wherefore (as the conclusion is given in verse 6) we died in Christ,
and are therefore free from that law wherein we were held; for “he that
has once so died stands justified (the penalty having been paid) from
his sin.

Now if we died with Christ we have been raised also with Him (6:8.
Col. 2:12). Thus we were planted together with Him in “His death, and
raised with Him (6:4) to newness of life. And be it noted that this is no
mere marriage union. To prevent this conclusion the verb to marry is
not used in verses 3 and 4. There, instead of the usual verb marry,
which we should expect to find, we have the verb to become, with the
dative case; and must in each instance supply the Ellipsis. In the case
of the woman, she “becomes” joined, “becomes” bound under the law
to a husband; but, in the case of those who died with Christ, they
“become” united to Him as members of His body and “become” His
property. Their union with Him is not in Incarnation, but in death,
burial, and resurrection; and having died with Him are freed from the
Law, instead of being bound to it.

Mat. 27:19.-“Have thou nothing to do with that just man.”

Here the fire, and feeling, and urgency of Pilate’s wife is all the
more forcible, in that she does not stop to formulate a tame, cold
argument, but she omits the major premiss; which is greatly
emphasized by being left for Pilate to supply. The complete Syllogism
would have been:

1. It is very wicked to punish a just or innocent man.

2. Jesus is a just man.

3. Have therefore nothing to do with punishing him.

The conclusion thus contains the proof of each of the premisses
on which it rests.

Thus is emphasized one of the four testimonies borne to the
innocence of the Lord Jesus by Gentiles at the time of His
condemnation.

1. Pilate’s wife (Mat. 27:19).

2. Pilate himself, “I am innocent of the blood of this just person”
(Mat. 27:24).

3. The dying malefactor, “This man hath done nothing amiss” (Luk.
23:41).

4. The Centurion, “Certainly this was a righteous man” (Luk.
23:47).
05" π. SECOND DIVISION"

SECOND DIVISION
06" р. Figures Involving Addition"
FIGURES INVOLVING ADDITION

WE now come to the second great division of our subject, viz., figures
which depend, for their new form, on some addition, either of words or
of sense.

In the one case, only the words are affected, by their repetition in
various forms and ways. In the other, the addition is made to the
sense by the use of other words.
These all come under the head of Pleonastic Figures; just as the
first division included all Elliptical Figures.

All these various forms of repetition and addition are used for the
purpose of attracting our attention, and of emphasizing what is said,
which might otherwise be passed by unnoticed.

When we reflect that no error in composition is more readily made
than the undue repetition of words, called Tautology, it is remarkable
that there are more than forty different ways of repeating words used
by the Holy Spirit: over forty legitimate modes of breaking the law
which governs the use of language; and of repeating words, in sucha
way that not only is there no tautology, but beauty is added to the
composition and emphasis given to the sense.

Under this division come all the forms of repetition, either of letters,
words, sentences, or subjects; which may be thus classified:-
Figures involving Repetition and Addition

|. Affecting Words.

1. Repetition of letters and syllables.

a. The same letters.

b. Different letters.
2. Repetition of the same word.

а. In the same sense.

b. Ina different sense.
3. Repetition of different words.
a. Ina similar order (but same sense).
b. Ina different order (but same sense).
c. With a similar sound (but different sense).
d. With a different sound (but similar sense).
4. Repetition of sentences and phrases.
5. Repetition of subjects (Correspondence).
ll. Affecting the Sense.
1. By way of Repetition.
2. By way of Amplification.
3. By way of Description.
4. By way of Conclusion.
5. By way of Interposition.
6. By way of Argumentation.
We will now consider the various Figures which come under these
various heads:
07" 7. Ι. Affecting Words"
|. AFFECTING WORDS
1. OF LETTERS AND SYLLABLES
(a) Of the same Letters

Homeeopropheron; or, Alliteration

The Repetition of the same Letter or Syllable at the commencement of
Successive Words
Ho-mee-o-proph’-e-ron, from ὅμοιος (homoios), like, and προφέρω
(propherd), to carry, or place before: i.e., Successive words which
carry the same letter or the same syllable before, or at the beginning.
This figure, therefore, is the repetition of the same letter or syllable

at the beginning of two or more words in close succession. Its English
name is ALLITERATION (from ad, to, and litera, letter). Churchill
speaks of “Apt Alliteration’s Artful Aid.”
