The structure of these verses (18, 19) throws more light on them,
and shows that after the words “many walk” there is a parenthetical
break, which is resumed at the end of verse 19, to show who these
“walkers” are, viz., “the earthly minded.”

а299 “For many are walking

6229 Whom | often told you, and do tell you now-even weeping,
calling them the enemies of the cross of Christ,

b=20 Whose end-destruction; whose god-the belly; and their
glory-in shame.

a2 Such [namely] as are minding earthly things.”

Here, in “a” and “a” we have the walkers; while in “b” we have their
walk, and in “b” their end. Hence their walk ends in destruction, their
worship ends in their belly, and their glory ends in shame.

Heb. 3:8.-“Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of
temptation in the wilderness.”

The provocation of God followed the temptation in the wilderness;
but is here put first to mark out the special temptation referred to.

Heb. 4:2.-“For unto us was the Gospel preached, as well as unto
them.” Here, the order of time is inverted, to agree with the order of
thought, and for emphasis.

But, as we have said, it is a question whether we have any real
examples of this figure in the Bible.
Hysterologia; or, the First, Last
The First of two things put Last: or, the opposite of Hysteron-Proteron

Hys’-ter-o-log’-i-a. Greek, ή τς from 2!!>)|! (hysteros), last, and
Le | (logos), speech, discourse.

A figure by which that which is put last, ought, according to the
usual order, to come first.

It is the opposite of Hysteron-Proteron; except that it refers toa
transposition of connected events, rather than of words.

It differs from Hysteresis (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).
Gen. 10:1-32 and xi.-In chapter 10. the dispersion of the nations is
put before the cause of it, which is recorded in chap. 11.
Gen. 12:1.-Here, the call of Abraham is put, by Hysterologia, after the
obedience to it (or to a previous call) in chap. 11:31, 32.

Abraham and Terah came out of Haran in consequence of this call;
