Gen. 10:1-32 and xi.-In chapter 10. the dispersion of the nations is
put before the cause of it, which is recorded in chap. 11.
Gen. 12:1.-Here, the call of Abraham is put, by Hysterologia, after the
obedience to it (or to a previous call) in chap. 11:31, 32.

Abraham and Terah came out of Haran in consequence of this call;
which is not recorded till afterward.

The figure thus emphasizes the fact that God had called them out
of “Ur of the Chaldees’” (see chap. 15:7) “into a land that | will show
thee” (chap. 12:1): while the history shows that the obedience, from
some cause, was not complete, for “they came unto Haran, and dwelt
there.” The Divine comment in Act. 7:2-4 reveals the secret to us:
“From thence (i.e., from Haran) when his father was dead, he
removed him into this land,” showing that Terah, his father, was the
hindrance to Abram’s complete obedience.

The figure thus calls attention to the fact that in his day, as well as
in our own, family ties often hinder full obedience to God.

The two calls are still further marked by the contrasted
expressions in chaps. 11:31 and 12:5.

In chap. 11:31, we read: “They went forth ... from Ur of the
Chaldees, to go into the land Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and
dwelt there.”

In chap. 12:5, we read, as to Haran, that “they went forth to go into
the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.”

Gen. 30:22-24.-The birth of Joseph is described by Hysterologia. For
it happened, really, after the birth Of the sixth son of Jacob (Naphtali)
and during the first seven years of his servitude. It was after the birth
of Joseph that Jacob wished to go away and leave Laban. In the first
seven years were born Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Dan, Naphtali,
and Joseph. Then he served seven more years (chap. 31:41), and in
these were born Gad, Asher, Issachar, Zebulun, and Dinah.
So Joseph's birth, which took place after Naphtali’s, is recorded,
by Hysterologia: after Dinah’s.

Gen. 38:1-30 -The history of Judah in this chapter is put by
Hysterologia, for the greater part of it took place before the selling of
Joseph, which is recorded in chap. 37.

Jdg. 20:1-48; Jdg. 21:1-25.-These chapters describe the Benjamite
war; which must have taken place many years before; indeed soon
after Joshua’s death, though recorded here. For Phinehas, the
grandson of Aaron, was high priest (chap. 20:28): and Jonathan, the
grandson of Moses, was the first idolatrous priest to the tribe of Dan!*
[Note: See pamphlet on The Massorah, by the same author and
publisher.]

Moreover, Jebus or Jerusalem was still in the hands of strangers
(chap. 19:10-12), whereas chap. 1:8, 21 describes its capture and
firing by the tribe of Judah.
1Sa. 16:1-23 -xviii.-Here, four events in the history of Saul and David
are transposed, by Hysterologia, in order to bring together certain
facts relating to each; and especially to the Spirit of God in relation to
each. In chap. 16:1-13, David is anointed, and the Spirit of God comes
upon him. Then, in order to contrast the Spirit of the Lord departing
from Saul, a /ater fact is brought forward here (chap. 16:14-23), which,
in the history, really follows chap. 18:9. So that chaps. 17-18:9 record
an earlier event in David’s life, which is brought in here parenthetically,
describing one of the illustrations of chap. 14:52, that, when Saul saw
any strong man or any valiant man, he took him unto him. Chaps.
17-18:9 go on to give an instance of this with David, and tell how Saul
thus found David. Then (after chap. 18:9) we have to go back again to
prior events (recorded in chap. 16:14-23); while, in chap. 18:10-30, we
have further facts concerning Saul’s “evil spirit” and other events of
David's life.

The whole section is beautifully constructed; and the parentheses
between the different members are clearly seen: each member being
parenthetical to the other two, between which it is placed:-

A@ 16:1-13. DAVID anointed. The Spirit of the Lord comes upon

him.
B 14-23. SAUL rejected. The Spirit of the Lord departs from
Saul, and an evil spirit troubles him.

A™ 17:1-18:9. DAVID. An earlier incident in his life.

Bo 10-30. SAUL. The Spirit departed, and evil spirit troubling
him.

So that, while Sau/ and David alternate, we see why the special
arrangement is made; so as to bring out into contrast the facts
recorded in each pair of corresponding members, which are not
recorded in their historical order, but in the order of the spiritual
instruction which is to be conveyed. The historical order is obtained by
reading on from A to A (treating B as being in a parenthesis); and then
from B to B (treating A as though it were in a parenthesis); while the
logical sequence of the spiritual order is obtained by reading straight
on, as the history is written in the Text.

2Sa. 23:1-39; 2Sa. 24:1-25.-The latter chapter is put after chapters 22
and 23, which contain David’s “last song” and “last words,” while the
events really follow chap. 21. The “song” and the “words” follow more
appropriately, immediately after the record of David’s mighty acts,
instead of after David's sin in numbering the People.

Isa. 38:21-22.-Here, the sign which Hezekiah had asked for, in verse
22, is described in verse 21, beautifully emphasizing the Divine over-
ruling of the history.

Amo. 6:2.-The cities are put according to logical emphasis, rather
than geographical sequence.
Mat. 27:52-53.-Here, the events which took place later, are recorded
in their consequential order, rather than in the actual historical order.

At the moment when the Lord Jesus “yielded up His Spirit ... the
earth was shaken, and the rocks were rent, and the tombs were
opened [and now comes, (by Hysterologia) “many bodies of the saints
who had fallen asleep, arose, and, coming forth out of the tombs after
His resurrection, entered into the holy city, and appeared privately*
[Note: This seems to be the meaning of “Μιισηςκθὔη (emphanizein),
see its only other occurpevzes: НеВ_9:24; НеВ_11:14.] to many]. Now the
centurion, and those with him, keeping guard over Jesus-seeing the
earthquake, and the things that were taking place-feared greatly,
saying, ‘Truly, God’s Son this Man was.’ ”

It is a question whether it be not this which is referred to in Rom.
1:4 : where the Lord Jesus is said to have been marked out as “God’s
Son ... as the result of raising (or rising) again of dead persons.” For it
is not ΙΙ, from among the dead, but simply =), of dead
people. That He was so marked out is described in the history by the
exclamation of the Centurion. In both cases we have «Ισ (without
articles), “God’s Son.”

Some have suggested that we have this figure in the record of the
temptation (Luk. 4:5; Luk. 4:9), where the temptation which seems to
come first in order of events is put last. Compare Mat. 4:5; Mat. 4:8.
Rev. 12:1-17 -In this chapter, we have the prophetic record of events,
which shall take place before Chapter 6, and lead up to what is
recorded in chapters 6-11.

Chapters 6-11. give the exoteric view of the future history, which
ends with the judgment (chap. 11:18). Chap. 11:18 therefore brings us
parallel to chap. 20. The Beast and false prophet are upon the earth
during this period, and their actions are seen in chaps. 9 and 11,
though they are not named, and their actual coming is not described,
till chap. 13.

But chapter 12 gives the esoteric view of the same period, and
takes us back to a point prior to chap. 6, and shows us the causes
which shall lead to the rising up of the Beast and the false prophet.

First, the war takes place in heaven, and the Devil is cast out into
the earth.

Then “he” stands upon the sand of the sea (chap. 13:1, R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] ); and John sees these two awful beings
coming up, the one from the sea and the other from the earth. There is
no record of their doings, except what is recorded in chaps. 6-11, and
in 13.

See further under Ellipsis.