Man often does, and is allowed to do, this in human literature: but
God may not! and so man cavils at this beautiful figure, and sees in it
only “discrepancy”; instead of delighting in these subsequent
supplementary facts thus revealed to us by the Holy Spirit, and such
as none but He could give.

Gen. 31:7-8.-Jacob mentions later, certain facts in his history which
had taken place before.

1Sa. 12:12.-A prior event is here recorded, not mentioned in the
earlier narration.

1Sa. 22:9-16.-Certain supplementary details are given here which are
not recorded in the account as narrated in chap. 21:1-9.

Psa. 105:18.-“Whose feet they hurt with fetters.” This, by Hysteresis,
is mentioned here, though not recorded in the history of Joseph in
Genesis.

Hos. 12:3-5 gives further particulars supplementing the history in Gen.
32:24, etc.; 28:12-19, and 35:9-15.

Amo. 1:1.-A particular earthquake is here mentioned, of which no
historical record is given. It is possibly the earthquake mentioned in
Zec. 14:5. Amos is said to have prophesied “in the days of Uzziah ...
and Jeroboam”; and it is added, “two years before the earthquake.”
Now, in Zechariah, we have no mention of Jeroboam. Hence it is very
possible that, by the time the earthquake took place, he was dead.
How Amos came to be “among the herdmen from Tekoa’; or, why
these men migrated, as it may seem, into Israelite territory, we are not
told. But if we take the mysterious “it,”* [Note: Which is masc. in all the
eight occurrences: and always followed by the great pause.] which
the Lord, by Amos, says, He will not “avert,” to be this very
earthquake, we avoid a very puzzling Ellipsis, and shall very likely be
correct.
Amo. 2:1.-Moab is here said to have “burned the bones of the king of
Edom into lime,” a fact of which we have no historical mention. Mesha,
king of Moab, evidently was a cruel man. In his superstitions he
offered his own son upon the wall, and turned the tide of battle.

See further information concerning this in the history of The
Moabite Stone.
Amo. 5:25-26.-Here we learn the names of certain of the gods which
the Children of Israel worshipped in the wilderness. See also Eze.
20:6-7; Eze. 20:18; Eze. 20:22, etc.
Zec. 14:5.-See above under Amo. 1:1.
Mat. 2:23.-“And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth: that it
might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be
called a Nazarene.”

Through missing this Hysteresis, the commentators have created
a difficulty of their own.

First, they cannot find such a prophecy in any of the prophets.

Then, they try and make a connection between neizer, a branch,
and Nazarene; and, as there is none, the difficulty is only increased.

Even if the connection could be established, the difficulty would not
be removed: for it says “prophets” (p/ura/), and the word neizer is used
of Christ in only one prophet, Isaiah. So the difficulty is further
increased.

But there is really no difficulty at all. It is absolutely created. It is
assumed from the outset that it says “which was written.” But it does
not say so! It says “which was SPOKEN.” The fact is, some
prophecies were written down and never spoken; some were both
written and spoken; while others were spoken and never written. This
is one of the latter class: and there is all the difference in the world
between 132 \\ (to rheethen), which was spoken, and ο ! (ло
gegraptai), which standeth written!
Thus, this beautiful Hysteresis reveals to us the historical fact that
several prophets had declared by the Holy Spirit that the Messiah
should be called a Nazarene. But for this Hysteresis we should never
have known it.

Mat. 23:35-36.-“That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed
upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of
Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and
the altar.” etc.

Now, from failing to see the historical Hysteresis here, it has been
hastily assumed that the reference is to 2Ch. 24:20-21, where we
read, “The Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the
priest ... And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones
at the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the Lord.”

By this inaccurate reference, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of
God, is charged with making a serious mistake.

But note that when the Lord says that Zachariah was “the son of
Barachias,” He could not possibly have been speaking of “the son of
Jehoiada” as the same man.

If He began with Abel, the first martyr, it is not probable He would
end with a murder which took place 870 years before he spoke the
words, when there were many more during those 870 years.

How much more probable that he referred to Zechariah the (last
but one) prophet (and the one of whom he is speaking, verse 31), who
died some 500 years before the Lord spoke the words? Moreover, he
is expressly called “the son of Berechiah” in Zec. 1:1; Zec. 1:7.

It is remarkable that there was another Zechariah, the son of
Baruch, who was martyred some 36 years afterward (a.d. 69),
immediately before the destruction of Jerusalem, as recorded by
Josephus (Wars, iv. 5, 4).

Mat. 27:9-10.-See under Gnome.

Act. 9:1-43; xxii.; xxvi.-In the three accounts of the conversion of
Saul, we have supplementary facts, disconnected from the historical
event.

2Ti. 3:8.-“Jannes and Jambres” are named as two of the Egyptian
wise men; whose names are not given in Exodus, but are supplied
here by the Holy Spirit.

Heb. 9:19.-The sprinkling of the book is supplementary information
which is not given in Exo. 24:1-18

Heb. 11:21.-Here we have an additional fact, which at once explains
and amplifies Gen. 48:12, and is not in discrepancy with Gen. 47:31,
as is commonly supposed.

We must give the whole of this verse, because of the controversies
which have raged around it: “By faith, Jacob, when he was a dying,
Messed both the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, /eaning upon the
top of his staff.”

The marginal reference in the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version,
or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] is Gen. 47:31; but this,
though followed by every one, is certainly not correct. The
circumstance in Heb. 11:21 is Jacob’s blessing of the sons of Joseph,
which is set in company with Isaac’s blessing of his own sons. The
two together giving the beautiful lesson that Isaac’s blessing was
given contrary to the will of the flesh (i.e., his own will), while Jacob's
blessing was given contrary to the will of man (i.e., Joseph’s will)
(Heb. 11:20-21).

It is clear, therefore, that the whole emphasis of the reference is to
the occasion of the blessing: of which there is not a word in Gen.
47:31, and to which it does not refer.

In Gen. 47:31, Jacob was causing Joseph to swear that he would
bury him not in Egypt, but in the land of Canaan, and “Israel bowed
himself upon the bed,s head.”
But it was “after these things” (Gen. 48:1), that the blessing of
Joseph and his sons took place. And, then, we have, in chap. 48:12,
the worship of Jacob who “bowed himself with his face to the earth.”
Jacob must, therefore, have been in a sitting posture; for, in verse 2,
we read that when they told him that Joseph was approaching, “Israel
strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed”; and, from verse 12,
when he embraced Ephraim and Manasseh, he took them “between
his knees.” It was then, we gather that, in the blessing of his own sons
(for chaps. 48 and 49 are continuous), that he “leaned on the top of
his staff.” And this inspired addition to the information is given us in
Heb. 11:21, to enhance and emphasize his faith, and to indicate
Israel's extreme infirmity, for it was his last dying act (chap. 49:33).

There is no necessity, therefore, for us to discuss the question of
the various reading involved in the Hebrew ica (mittah), the bed, and
the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] and Syriac
rendering, the staff, which would require the Hebrew to be pointed
iéa (matteh). Had the word been used in the Hebrew of Gen.
48:1-22, the true pointing would have been there decided.*|Note: Had
a Staff been intended in Gen. 47:31, it would probably have been
22 (makkail), as in chaps, 30:37; 32:10, etc.] But the point is
decided for us in Heb. 11:21; which clearly states that it was his “staff”
that Israel leaned upon while worshipping God and blessing “by faith”
the sons of Joseph. We must, however, point out “the incalculable
quantity of idolatrous nonsense,” to use the words of Dean Alford (in
loco), which (he says) “has been written on these words by Roman
Catholic commentators, taking as their starting point the rendering of
the Vulgate: et adoravit fastigium virgae ejus [and worshipped the top
of his staff], and thence deriving an argument for the worship of
images”! This corruption of the Vulgate is perpetuated in all the
Romish translations of it; and all therefore come under the Dean’s
vigorous condemnation.

Heb. 12:21 gives a particular which we do not find recorded in Exo.
19:1-25 and xx.

Jam. 5:17.-The earnest prayer of Elijah is not recorded in 1Ki. 17:1.
Jud. 1:9 mentions by the Holy Spirit the contention of Satan about the
body of Moses; and, in verse 14, some words of a prophecy of Enoch.
Trading on this reference, men have forged “the book of Enoch”
evolving its fancies and trivialities out of this historical Hysteresis.
Simultaneum; or, Insertion
A parenthetic Insertion between the record of two simultaneous
Events
Si’-mul-ta’-ne-um. Latin, from simul, at the same time, together.

This figure is used when, in a description of events, properly
belonging to the same time, one is changed and put out of its
historical place, and put in between two others, which is thus divided
so as to take us by surprise.

It is, therefore, a kind of historical parenthesis, or logical Tmesis
(α.ν. [Note: Which зее.] ).

Mar. 15:12-14.-Where Pilate’s words (verses 12, 14) are interrupted
by the shouts of the People (verse 13). The events took place literally
in this order: but, instead of describing the two events separately,
Pilate’s words and the People’s are described at one and the same
time.

Rev. 16:13-16.-Here the description (14, 16) of the work of the three
unclean spirits in gathering together the kings of the earth to
Armageddon is interrupted by verse 15; which is an injunction
specially referring to that same time, and is therefore introduced there,
by Simultaneum, for the sake of emphasis.
