Simultaneum; or, Insertion
A parenthetic Insertion between the record of two simultaneous
Events
Si’-mul-ta’-ne-um. Latin, from simul, at the same time, together.

This figure is used when, in a description of events, properly
belonging to the same time, one is changed and put out of its
historical place, and put in between two others, which is thus divided
so as to take us by surprise.

It is, therefore, a kind of historical parenthesis, or logical Tmesis
(α.ν. [Note: Which зее.] ).

Mar. 15:12-14.-Where Pilate’s words (verses 12, 14) are interrupted
by the shouts of the People (verse 13). The events took place literally
in this order: but, instead of describing the two events separately,
Pilate’s words and the People’s are described at one and the same
time.

Rev. 16:13-16.-Here the description (14, 16) of the work of the three
unclean spirits in gathering together the kings of the earth to
Armageddon is interrupted by verse 15; which is an injunction
specially referring to that same time, and is therefore introduced there,
by Simultaneum, for the sake of emphasis.
Antithesis; or, Contrast
A setting of one Phrase in Contrast with another
An-tith’-e-sis. Greek, 2 |! =1T!, from © | (anti), against, and ‘ Г!
(thesis), a setting, from |. (tithenai), to set or place.

It is a figure by which two thoughts, ideas, or phrases, are set over
one against the other, in order to make the contrast more striking, and
thus to emphasize it.* [Note: When this consists of words rather than
of sentences, it is called Epanodos, and Antimetabole (q.v.).]

The two parts so placed are hence called in Greek antitheta, and
in Latin opposita and contraposita. For example:

“When our vices leave us, we flatter ourselves we leave them.”

“Curved is the line of beauty,
Straight is the line of duty.”

“The prodigal robs his heir, the miser robs himself.”

“God demands man’s homage; man offers Him his
patronage.”t [Note: Dr. Robert Anderson in The Silence of God.]

Man often misuses this figure, for the mere fancy of balancing
sentences; and thus often falsely exaggerates a contrast which lies
more in the words than in the thoughts. When this is the case it is
called Antimetabole, Parison, Annominatio, etc. (q.v. [Note: Which
see] ).
