This figure is seen, of course, only in the Hebrew and the Greek. It
is difficult to reproduce it in a translation. And where it occurs in the
English it may be only accidental, and carry no weight or emphasis.

The song of Deborah, in Jdg. 5:1-31, abounds with examples of
Homeeopropheron, which add great fire and force and beauty to the
original. It is impossible to accurately and literally reproduce it in
English, but with a little liberty we can give the English reader some
idea of the use of this Figure.

We may as well, at the same time, do so according to its structure
(see under Correspondence) and we present the structure first in
outline, before setting it out in full.

The structure of Jdg. 5:1-31 in outline:

А 2-. Praise to Jehovah for the avenging of Israel.

В а -2,3. Israel. The people’s voluntary service.
Ь — 4-8. Contrasted states of the country.
а 9. Israel. The leaders’ voluntary service.
Ь — 10, 11. Contrasted states of the country.
B b 12-18. Contrasted conduct.
a 19-22. The Enemy. Assault and defeat.
Ь 23-27. Contrasted conduct.
a 28-30. The Enemy. Presumption and disappointment.
Α 31. Praise to Jehovah for the avenging of Israel.
Adhering to this form, we may set the song forth thus:-
А 2. Bless ye Jehovah,
В а That the Leaders in Israel took the lead;
That the people willingly offered themselves.
Hear, O ye kings; Hearken, O ye princes;
I, even I, will sing to Jehovah,
Will strike the strings unto Jehovah, Israel’s God.
b — Jehovah, when thou settest forth from Seir,
When thou wentest forth from Edom’s field,
The earth trembled, yea, the heavens dropped;
Yea, the clouds dropped down water,
The mountains melted away before Jehovah,
Even yon, Sinai, before Jehovah, God of Israel.*
[Note: Hyperbole (q.v.).]
In the days of Shamgar, son of Anath,
In Jael’s days,
The highways were effaced;
The travellers had to walk in tortuous ways,
Effaced were Israel’s hamlets-effaced
Till |, Deborah, rose up-rose up a mother in Israel
New gods had they got them,
Therefore the press of war approached their gates.
Was there found shield or spear among forty
thousand in Israel?
а — My heart is with the leaders of Israel,
Who willingly offered themselves among the People:
Bless ye Jehovah.
b — Уе who ride upon white asses,
Ye who recline upon rich rugs,
Who walk by the way-Speak!
Instead of the shouting of the archers among the
water-drawers.
They praise there the righteous acts of Jehovah,
His righteous acts in His villages in Israel.
Then the People of Jehovah hastened down to the
gates.
B Ь Awake, awake,t [Note: Geminatio.] Deborah!
Awake, awake, speak the song!
Barak, arise! conquer thy conquest,
Thou son of Abinoam.
Then down against the robust rushed a remnant;
Jehovah’s Host rushed with me against the
powerful,

From Ephraim’s stock-the victors over Amalek:

After thee marched Benjamin among thy peoples;

From Machir came the Masters,

Men that wield the Marshall's staff out of Zebulun.

But the princes of Issachar were with Deborah,

Yea, Issachar was like Barak,

When into the valley his men threw themselves at
his feet,

While by the brooks abode Reuben,

With great resolutions of heart.

Why sittest thou among the folds listening to the
shepherd's flute?

By the brooks Reuben has great searchings of
heart.

Gilead stays beyond Jordan,

And Dan-Why does he abide in his ships?

Asher stays still on the shore of the sea,

Staying still in its bays,

But Zebulun hazarded his soul unto death

With Naphthali, upon the heights of the field.

а Kings came to fight-then the Kings of Canaan fought
At Taanach and by Megiddo’s Meres;
Silver gained they none.
From heaven they strove; the stars in their courses
They strove against Sisera:
Kishon’s stream swept them away-
A stream of succours was Kishon’s stream.
Tread strongly on, my Soul!
When struck the sounding hoof of the rushing steed-
Of the rushingst [Note: Epizeuxis (q.v.).] strong ones.
Ь Curse ye Meroz, commands Jehovah's Angel,
Curse ye, curse ye her inhabitants,
Because they came not to Jehovah’s help,
To Jehovah's help* [Note: Epizeuxis (q.v.).] amid
the mighty.
Blessed above women be Jael,
Heber the Kenite’s wife,
Blessed above woment [Note: Anaphora (q.v.).] of
the tents!
He asks for water, she gives him milk;
In a beauteous bowl she carries him cream:
With her left hand she takes the tent-peg,
With her right the heavy hammer,
She swings it over Sisera, smites his head,

Crashes through and transfixes his temples,

At her feet he falls-he lies,

At her feett [Note: Anaphora (q.v.).] he lies, writhes
again, and falls,

As he writhes himself again he falls-dead!} [Note:
Asyndeton (q.v.).]

а Sisera’s mother looks from the window-edge,
She looks from the lattice-ledge and laments:

“Why lingers his car so long?

Why stop his chariots’ steps?”

Her wise ladies answer her,

But she repeats her words to herself:

“Will they not find booty and share it?

Two maidens for each man;[Note: Some critics have
quoted this as a specimen of the low moral
standard of theScriptures, not seeing that it is
merely telling us what the heathen woman (Sisera’s
mother) said! And in that woman’s language we
have the key to the victory which one woman won;
and to the vengeance which another woman
wrought.]

Booty of purple robes for Sisera,

Yea, booty of purple robes!

Two for each neck of the captors?” [Note: Aposiopesis
(q.v.).]

А So fall all thy foes, О Jehovah,
But let them that love Him shine forth as the sun in his
strength.
Rom. 11:33.-“How unsearchable (ἀνεξερεύνητα, anexereuneeta) are
his judgments, and his ways past finding out (ἀνεξιχνίαστοι,
anexichniastoi)!”

Here, the two important words are rendered still more emphatic by
commencing with the same syllables.

His judgments are anexereuneeta (unsearchable), and His ways
anexichniastoi (untrackable).

This means that His judgments are incomprehensible, and His
ways untrackable. The former word occurs nowhere else in the N.T.;
the latter only here, and in Eph. 3:8, where it is rendered “unsearch-
able”:-“The unsearchable riches of Christ.” This does not merely
vaguely express that Christ's riches are uncountable or untold, but
that they cannot be traced out. The context shows that this present
interval between “the sufferings of Christ” and “the glory that should
follow,” had been kept a secret (μυστήριον, musteerion, or mystery),
and had not been revealed, until it was made known by the Spirit
through Paul (Rom. 16:25-26. Eph. 3:2-11. Col. 1:26-27). The
prophets sought to know the secret as to “what or what manner of
time” the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify: but, it was
untrackable; they could not follow it: His ways were “past finding out.”*
[Note: See The Mystery, by the same author and publisher.]
1Th. 1:2.-“We give thanks to God always for you all.” The last words
are emphasized by being put as a beautiful Homoeo-propheron. The
Greek is πάντοτε περὶ πάντων (Pantote Peri Ραπίφη), i.e., always
concerning you all.
1Th. 5:23.-We give our own rendering: “And may the God of peace
Himself sanctify you wholly (ὁλοτελεῖς, holoteleis), and may your
whole being (ὁλόκληρον, holokleeron), the spirit, and the soul, and
the body, be preserved (i.e., reserved, see 1Ре. 1:4. 2Pe. 2:4; 2Pe.
2:9; 2Pe. 2:17; 2Pe. 3:7. Jud. 1:6; Jud. 1:13), unblamable at (ἐν) the
parousia (presence or coming) of our Lord Jesus Christ.”

Here the two words are “holofeleis kai holokleeron.”
Heb. 1:1.-“God who at sundry times and in divers manners, etc.”
πολυμερῶς καὶ πολυτρόπως πάλαι (polymers και polytropabs palai),
“in many parts and many ways of old.”

Here, there is both Homoeopropheron and Homeeteleuton: the two
words both beginning with poly- and ending with -qbs.

Homeeoteleuton; or, Like Endings
