This figure is so-called, because the construction with which a
proposition begins is abandoned; and, either for the sake of
perspicuity, emphasis, or elegance, the sentence proceeds in a
manner, different from that in which it set out.

Human writings of deep thought or feeling or argument frequently
have the figure Anacoluthon, which in these cases is mere irregularity
attributable to inadvertence, arising from the negligence or
carelessness of the writer.

But, in the case of the Scriptures, where the Holy Spirit is the
Author, and all is perfect, the figure not only imparts grace, but
strength and force to the language, and is intended to catch and fix
the attention of the reader. In this case, of course, what is abandoned
is not further necessary. It has served its purpose in arresting, and so
the argument passes on to that to which the attention is to be given.

1. Sometimes the accusative stands alone at the beginning of a
sentence
This is not an “accusative absolute,” but is to be rendered “as for” or
“as to.”
Luk. 21:6.-Here, the Lord says: “These things which ye behold”: and
then He turns off, and says: “There will come days.” So that we must
supply the words “As to” these things, etc.

Act. 10:36.-Here, again, the sentence begins with the accusative:
“The word which He sent unto the children of Israel.” Some MSS., not
understanding the Anacoluthon, omit the relative pronoun “which.” But
the sense is “As touching the word which He hath sent,” etc. Or it may
depend on ©" =, ye know, in the next verse: “Ye know the word
which He sent,” etc.

Rom. 8:3.-“For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through
the flesh.” Here, the argument breaks off to speak of what God has
done: “God (by sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and
as an offering for sin) did: namely, “He condemned sin in the flesh in
order that the righteous-requirement (‘| “, dikai?ma) of the Law
might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to flesh (i.e., the Old
nature), but according to spirit ({:6., the New nature).”

The figure requires the conclusion-this thing was impossible for the
Law to do, because it was weak through the flesh: i.e., man, owing to
the corruption of his nature, could not keep the Law; and the Law was
powerless, because it could neither pardon the trangressor, nor alter
his nature. This defect was overcome by God, Who condemned sin in
the death of His Son (who was the sin-offering personified). His
People, therefore, having died with Him, are discharged from the
claims of the Law; and, being now “in Christ,” fulfil in Him all its
righteous requirements.
2. Sometimes the leading proposition is interrupted by a
parenthesis, and, when the subject is resumed, the grammatical
connection is changed
Joh. 6:22-24.

Gal. 2:6-7.

3. Sometimes the construction suddenly changes (without a
paten. thesis) by a change of persons; or, from participles to
finite verbs; or, from singular to plural, and vice versa
Mar. 6:11.-“And whosoever shall not receive you ... shake off the dust

of your feet against them.”
Here, the Anacoluthon is seen only when we take the Critical Text
approved by T. [Note: . Tischendorf and his critical Greek Text.] Tr.
[Note: r. Tregelles and his critical Greek Text.] A. [Note: . Alford and
his critical Greek Text.] WH. [Note: H. Westcott and Hort, and their
critical Greek Text.] ‚ and Ι.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
viz., 1 |\9\) (hos an topos), whatsoever place (singular), instead of ©

2 (hosoi an) whosoever or as many as (plural). So that the
Anacoluthon is: “And whatsoever place (sing. [Note: ing. The Singular
Number-.] ) will not receive you ... shake off the dust of your feet
against them.”

Luk. 11:11.-“From which of you, the father, shall his son ask bread?
Will he give him a stone?”

Here the plural “you” is broken off for the singular “he.”
1Со. 7:13.-“And the woman which hath an husband that believeth
not, and if he be pleased to dwell with her,” etc.

Here the break is from the feminine to the masculine.
2Co. 5:6; 2Co. 5:8.-Here the change is from participles to finite verbs:

“Being confident then always, and conscious that being at home
[here] in the body, we are from home, away from the Lord (for by faith
we are walking, not by sight). We are confident, however, and are
content rather to be from home [here] out of the body, and to be at
home with the Lord [there].”
These words are usually misquoted “absent from the body, present
with the Lord,” as though it meant that the moment we are absent from
the body we are present with the Lord. But this is exactly what it does
not say: and the Anacoluthon calls our attention to this.

The whole subject is resurrection, starting from 4:14. Our two
bodies are contrasted in 5:1-5: viz.: “the earthly house of this
tabernacle (i.e., this mortal body)’ is contrasted with “our 9 |=)
(oikeeteerion), our spiritual or resurrection body” (see Jud. 1:6): viz.:
“our house which is from heaven,” the future body of glory being called
a “house,” as compared with the present body in which we groan,
which is called a “tabernacle” or tent.

The argument is that, while we are in this “tabernacle” we cannot
have that “house”; and that while we are in this tent we are away from
our real eternal home, which is with the Lord.

There is no thought (here or elsewhere) of our being at home, or
“with the Lord,” apart from resurrection and our resurrection bodies.
Gal. 6:1.-“Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are
spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering
thyself, lest thou also be tempted.”

Here the abrupt transition from the plural to the singular, which is a
kind of Enallage (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), makes the general precept
applicable to each individual, in order to emphasize the absolute
necessity of the “spirit of meekness’” which is enjoined.
The figure calls our attention also to the fact that restoration is the
object, and not judgment. Experience would lead us to believe that the
text read: “Ye which are spiritual judge such an one in the spirit of
bitterness and harshness, not considering thyself!” Hence the use of
this figure to arrest our attention, and correct our error.

Eph. 1:20.-“Having raised him ... he set him.”
Col. 1:26.-“The secret which had been lying hid from the ages and
from the generations, but lately was made manifest to his Saints.”

Other examples may be found, e.g.:-

Change from first person to the second: Gal. 3:25-26; Gal. 4:5-6;
Gal. 4:20.

Change from second person to the first: Eph. 2:2-3; Eph. 2:13-14;
Eph. 4:31-32; Eph. 5:2 (textual reading). Col. 1:10-13; Col. 3:3-4. 1Th.
5:5.
Change from second person plural to singular: Rom. 12:16-20.
1Co. 4:6-7. Gal. 4:6-7.

Change from third person to second: Jam. 2:16.
4. Sometimes the construction is broken off altogether, andis not

completed at all

Mar. 11:32.-“But if we shall say, Of men;-they feared the people.”

Here, the reasonings of the rulers are broken off, and the sense
must be supplied by Ellipsis (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]).
Rom. 5:12.-This is usually given as an example of what appears to be
an Anacoluthon; because the sense seems broken off at the end of
verse 12: but the structure of the passage shows us the connection,
and where the sense or argument is resumed. Many suppose that this
is verse 15; but the Correspondence of subjects shows that it must be
verse 18.

The section to which verse 12 belongs is that from verse 12 to 21,
and is as follows:-

The structure of Rom. 5:12-21.
A а220 12. By one man, sin: then, death upon all.
Ρ: 13. Sin not imputed where no Law exists.
20 14. The reign of death.
Bo 15. Not as the offence, so the gracious gift.
Bo 16, 17. Not as by one person, so the gift.

A ассо 18, 19. By one man’s offence, all men under
condemnation; by one man’s disobedient act the many were
constituted sinners; and the counterpart.

6°29 20. The offence abounded when Law came-and the
counterpart.
029 21. The reign of sin-and the counterpart.

Here, we see that verse 12 corresponds with verses 18, 19, and
consequently all between (viz., verses 13-17) is practically in a
parenthesis. Moreover, note that the three members of A are stated
with their counterparts, and are thus distinguished from the three in A.
[Note: . Alford and his critical Greek Text.]
1Ti. 1:3-4.-Here, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] supplies the sense by adding “so do.”
The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] adds “so do / now.”

5. Sometimes the change consists of a sudden transition from
the indirect to the direct form of speech
Mar. 6:9.-“But being shod with sandals; and put not on two coats.
Luk. 5:14.-“Не charged him to tell no man, but go and show thyself,”
etc.
This may be explained by the Ellipsis of the verb “say,” “but [he

said] go and show thyself,” etc.
Joh. 5:44.-“How can ye believe, receiving honour one from another?
and the honour that is only from God, ye seek not.”
Act. 1:4.-“Wait for the Father’s promise which ye heard of me.” The
A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] treat this
as Ellipsis, supplying the words “which [saith or said he] ye have
heard of me.”
Act. 17:3.-“Opening and alleging, that Christ must needs have
suffered and have risen from among the dead, and that this is the
Christ whom I announce to you.” The R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] (and A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] margin) treat this as Ellipsis, “whom
[said he] | preach,” etc.

6. Sometimes the change is from the direct form, which passes
into the indirect
Joh. 13:29.-“Buy those things that we have need of against the feast;
or, that he should give something to the poor.”
Act. 14:22.- “Establishing the souls of the disciples, exhorting them
to continue in the faith, and that through many tribulations must we
enter into the Kingdom of God.”
See under Ellipsis-
Act. 23:23.-“Get ready two hundred soldiers that they may go to
Crsarea.” The natural sequence would have been “and go.”
7. Sometimes two equivalent constructions are united in the
same proposition
It is scarcely necessary to present these in full. The student can
readily search them out for himself.

See Mar. 6:7; Mar. 12:38. Rom. 12:4. 1Co. 14:5. Eph. 5:27; Eph.
5:33.

And in the Old Testament the following may be noticed:-

Gen. 35:3. Jos. 23:16. Jdg. 16:24. Neh. 10:30.
13" р. ΙΙΙ. Affecting the Application of Words"

Il. AFFECTING THE APPLICATION OF
WORDS

We now come to the last class of the three great divisions of figurative
language, viz., figures which involve the Application of words rather
than their Meaning or Order.
These we propose to consider under those that have to do with
change; not that there is any real or absolute change; but because
there is a deviation or change from the literal, or from the more
ordinary and usual application of words. This change is brought about
and prompted by some internal action of the mind, which seeks to
impress its intensity of feeling upon others. The meaning of the words
themselves continues to be literal: the figure lies in the application of
the words. This application arises from some actual resemblance
between the words, or between two or more mental things which are
before the mind.

When the literal application of the words is contrary to ordinary
plain human experience, or to the nature of the things themselves,
then we are compelled to regard the application as figurative, though
the words themselves still retain their literal meaning; otherwise, the
application would lose all its force and all its point.

The first three important figures in this class should be studied
together: viz.: Simile (comparison by Resemblance), Metaphor
(comparison by Representation), and Hypocatastasis (comparison by
Implication), because they are like three degrees of comparison in the
emphasis conveyed by the inter-relation of words апа their
application. They are the positive, comparative, and superlative
degrees of relation between words and thoughts.

In conforming to the order in which we are presenting these
Figures of language, we lose much that would elucidate and bring out
the beauties of these three. They would each gain in force and
emphasis if we were to combine them in one chapter and under one
head.

Even if we could present the passages out of the order of the
books of the Bible, one could be made to lead on and up to another,
so as to enhance the general effect and force of the subject.

But we proceed on the lines we have laid down, and consider the
Application of words:

1. As to Sense
Simile; or, Resemblance
A Declaration that one Thing resembles another; or, Comparison by
Resemblance
