Hebrew, is yet so really there that the R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] has abandoned the use of italic type with regard to it
in the Old Testament, and so the Revisers state it in their preface. We
prefer the practice of the translators of the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ‚ and believe it is
more correct.

In the Greek, as we shall see below, whenever a Metaphor is

intended, the verb substantative must be used; otherwise it is often
omitted according to the Hebrew usage (see the Beatitudes, etc.). It is,
therefore, more easy to discern a Metaphor in the New Testament
than in the Old. In the latter we have to be guided by what is true to
fact and what is true only to feeling. If we distinguish between these,
we shall not fail to see what is a statement of fact, and what is a
Metaphor.
Psa. 23:1.-“The Lord is my Shepherd.” Here, we have a Metaphor;
and in it a great and blessed truth is set forth by the representation of
Jehovah as a Shepherd. It is He who tends his People, and does
more for them than any earthly shepherd does for his sheep All His
titles and attributes are so bound up with this care that in this Psalm
we have the illustration of all the Jehovah-titles:-

In verse 1. “I shall not want,” because He is Jehovah-Jireh (Gen.
22:14), and will provide.
In verse 2. “He leadeth me beside the waters of quietness
(margin), because He is Jehovah-Shalom (Jdg. 6:24), and will give
peace.

In verse 3. “He restoreth my soul,” for He is Jehovah-Rophecha
(Exo. 15:26), and will graciously heal.

In verse 3. He guides me “in the paths of righteousness,” for He is
Jehovah-tzidkenu (Jer. 23:6), and is Himself my righteousness, and |
am righteous in Him (Jer. 33:16).

In verse 4. In death’s dark valley “Thou art with me,” for thou art
Jehovah-shammah (Eze. 48:35), and the Lord is there.

In verse 5. “Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of
mine enemies,” for Thou art Jehovah-nissi (Exo. 17:15), my banner,
and will fight for me, while | feast.

In verse 5. “Thou anointest my head with oil,” for Thou art
Jehovah-mekaddeschem (Exo. 31:13, etc.), the Lord that sanctifieth
me.
In verse 6. “Surely” all these blessings are mine for time and

eternity, for He is Jehovah-rohi (Psa. 23:1), Jehovah my Shepherd,
pledged to raise me up from the dead, and to preserve and bring me
“through” the valley of death into His glorious kingdom (Joh. 6:39).
Psa. 84:11 (12).-“The Lord God is a Sun and Shield.” Here, the
Metaphor is taken from the uses and effects of the two things
mentioned. He is my light and my defence. See P.B.V. [Note: .B.V. The
Prayer Book Version of the Psalms (from Coverdale’s Bible).]
Psa. 91:4.-“His truth is a shield and a buckler” (R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ). Here, we have the Metaphor, by which the
one thing is carried over and stated as being the other. In Psa. 5:12,
we have the same fact stated literally as a Simile. See page 728
above.

Metaphors are so numerous in the Old Testament, that it is

impossible to give more than these few to serve as specimens and
examples. We add a few from the New Testament.
Mat. 5:13.-“Ye are the salt of the earth”: i.e., ye are (or represent) with
regard to the earth what salt is to other things, preserving it from total
corruption and destruction; just as the few righteous in Sodom would
have preserved that city.
When the Lord Jesus shall have returned and caught up His
People (the salt) to meet Him in the air and to be for ever with Him,
then the corruption will proceed apace, and the harvest of the earth
speedily be ripened for judgment.

Mat. 26:26.-“This is my body” (τοῦτό ἐστι τὸ σῶμά µου, touto esti to
56/18 mou).

Few passages have been more perverted than these simple
words. Rome has insisted on the literal or the figurative sense of
words just as it suits her own purpose, and not at all according to the
laws of philology and the true science of language.

Hence the Latin idiom, “agere poenitentiam,” repent, has been
rendered literally in all her versions from the Vulgate, in various
languages, “do penance,” except when God is said to repent! Rome
dared not translate agere poenitentiam literally in these cases, which
proves her design in thus systematically perverting the Word of God:
and the false doctrine is thus forced into the words under a show or
semblance of literal translation.* [Note: Rome would not dare to
translate the same Latin idiom “agere vitam,” to do life, though the
expression has passed into slang. It means simply to live, as the other
idiom means to repent.] So the Metaphor, “This is my body,” has been
forced to teach false doctrine by being translated literally.
No perversion of language has been fraught with greater calamity
to the human race. Tens of thousands have suffered martyrdom at the
hands of Rome rather than believe the “blasphemous fable” forced
into these words. The exquisite tortures of the Inquisition were
invented to coerce the consciences of men and compel them to
accept this lie!

Luther himself was misled, through his ignorance of this simple law
of figurative language. In his controversy with Zwingle, he obstinately
persisted in maintaining the literal sense of the figure, and thus forced
it to have a meaning which it never has. He thus led the whole of
Germany into his error! For, while his common sense rejected the
error of “Transubstantiation,” he fell into another, and invented the
figment of “Consubstantiation,” and fastened it upon the Lutheran
Church to this day.

What a solemn and instructive lesson as to the importance of a
true understanding of the figures of language!
The whole figure, in a metaphor, lies, as we have said, in the verb
substantive “IS”; and not in either of the two nouns; and # is a
remarkable fact that, when a pronoun is used instead of one of the
nouns (as it is here), and the two nouns are of different genders, the
pronoun is always made to agree in gender with that noun to which
the meaning is carried across, and not with the noun from which it is
carried, and to which it properly belongs. This at once shows us that a
figure is being employed; when a pronoun, which ought, according to
the laws of language, to agree in gender with its own noun, is
changed, and made to agree with the noun which, by Metaphor,
represents it.

Here, for example, the pronoun, “this” (τοῦτό, touto), is neuter, and
is thus made to agree with “body” (σῶμά, séma), which is neuter, and
not with bread (ἄρτος, artos), which is masculine.* [Note: In violation
of this law, a recent revision of the Marathi Prayer Book has
deliberately changed the gender of the pronoun and made it to agree
with the word for “bread”!]

This is always the case in Metaphors, and a few examples may be
cited here, instead of in their natural order and place.

In Zec. 5:8, “This is wickedness.” Here, “this” (fem.) does not
agree with “ephah” (to which it refers), which is neuter (LXX. [Note:
Septuagint Version (325 b.c.).] ), but with “wickedness,” which is
feminine.

In Zec. 5:3, “This is the curse.” “This” (fem.) agrees with “curse,”
which is feminine, and not with “flying roll,” which is neuter, (to which it
refers), (Spétravov, drepanon, LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version
(325 b.c.).]).

In Mat. 13:38, “The good seed are the children of the kingdom.”
Here, “these” (masc.) (οὗτοι, houtoi),t [Note: This pronoun is omitted
in the English of the A.V. and Π.Ν] agrees with “children of the
kingdom” (masc.), and not with seed (σπέρµα, sperma), which is
neuter.

Luk. 8:14, “These are they which having heard,” etc. Here, “these”
(masc.) (οὗτοι, houtoi) agrees with the participle (οἱ ἀκούσαντες, hoi
akousantes), “they which having heard,” which is masculine, and not
with the seed, (to which it refers), which is neuter.

All this establishes our statement that, in a Metaphor, the two
nouns (or pronoun and noun) are always literal, and that the figure lies
only in the verb. Another remarkable fact is that in the vast number of
cases where the language is literal, and there is no metaphor at all,
the verb is omitted altogether.* [Note: This rule does not apply to the
Hebrew, of course, as we have said above: because it has no verb “to
be.”] Even when a Metaphor has been used, and the language
passes suddenly from figurative to literal, the verb is at once dropped,
by Ellipsis, as not being necessary for the literal sense, as it was for
the previous figurative expression: e.g., in 1Co. 12:27, “Ye ARE the
body of Christ.” Here is a metaphor, and consequently the verb is
used. But in verse 29, which is literal, the Change is at once made,
and the fact is marked by the omission of the verb,” [Are] all apostles?
[are] all prophets? [are] all teachers? [are] all workers of miracles?”
Next compare other examples of Metaphors which are naturally

used in the explanations of Parables. Note the Parables of the Sower,
and of the Tares (Mat. 13:19-23; Mat. 13:37-43).

“He that soweth the good seed is (i.e., represents) the Son of

man.”

“The field is (i.e., signifies) the world.”

“The good seed are the children of the kingdom.”

“But the tares are the children of the wicked one.”

“The enemy that sowed them is the devil.”
“The harvest is the end of the age.”
“And the reapers are the angels.”
In all these (as in every other Metaphor) the verb means, and
might have been rendered, “represents,” or “signifies.”
The Apocalypse is full of metaphors, e.g.:
“The seven stars are ({6., represent) the angels of the seven
churches.”
“And the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven
churches” (1:20).
The odours “are the prayers of the saints” (5:8).
“They are the spirits of demons” (16:14).
“The seven heads are (i.e., represent) seven mountains (17:9):
etc., etc.
So in the very words that follow “this is (i.e., represents or
signifies) my body,” we have an undoubted Metaphor. “He took the
cup ... saying ... this is my blood.” Here, thus, we have a pair of
metaphors. In the former one, “this” refers to “bread,” and it is claimed
that “is” means changed into the “body” of Christ. In the latter, “this”
refers to “the cup,” but it is not claimed that the cup is changed into
“blood.” At least, we have never heard that such a claim has been put
forward. The difference of treatment which the same figure meets with
in these two verses is the proof that the former is wrong.

In 1Co. 11:25 we read “this cup is the new covenant.” Will
Romanists, in and out of the Church of England, tell us how this “cup”
becomes transubstantiated into a “covenant”?

Is it not clear that the figure in the words, “This is my body,” is
forced into a literal statement with the set purpose and design of
making it teach and support erroneous doctrine?

Other examples of Metaphor in this immediate connection are:
1Co. 10:16.-“The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not ({6., does it
not represent) the communion of the blood of Christ.” through which
all blessing comes to us?

“The bread which we break, is it not (i.e., does it not represent) the
communion of the body of Christ?” ie., does it not signify the
fellowship of all the members of Christ's mystical body, who, being
many, are one body (1Co. 12:12)? “For we being many are one bread,
and one body,” as 1Co. 10:17 declares.

It is because those who eat of that bread do not “discern” or
discriminate that “one body” ({6., Christ mystical) that they are said to
eat to their own condemnation; for they witness to the fact of that
“great Mystery” and yet are ignorant of its truth! And hence they
condemn themselves.

Further, the verb, εἰμι (eimi), Г am, or the infinitive of it, to be,
means to be in the sense of signifying, amounting to. And that this is
one of its primary senses may be seen from the following passages,
where it is actually translated “to mean,” and not merely to be:-“

“But go ye and learn what that is” (i.e., meaneth, as in A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] ), Mat. 9:13.

“But if ye had known what that is” (A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] ,
meaneth), Mat. 12:7.

“He asked what these things were” (A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
16141, meant), Luk. 15:26.
“What is this?” (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] , “What meaneth this?”)
Act. 2:12.

“Now, while Peter doubted in himself what this vision was which
he had seen” (A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of
our English Bible, 1611.] , “What this vision should mean”), Act. 10:17,
etc., etc., etc.

On the other hand, if an actua/ change is meant, then there must
be a verb which shall plainly and actually say so: for the verb “to be”
never has or conveys any idea of such change.
The usual verb to express such a change is γίνομαι (ginomai),
which means {ο be or become. Mar. 4:39, “There was (i.e., there
became) a great calm,” and the storm was changed (or turned into)
into calm.

Luk. 4:3, “Command this stone that it be made (i.e., changed into)
bread.”

Joh. 2:9, “When the ruler of the feast tasted the water that was
made (i.e., changed into) wine.”

Joh. 16:20, “Your sorrow shall be turned into joy.” This was a real
transubstantiation.

Act. 26:28, Agrippa said, “Almost thou persuadest me fo be (i.e., to
become) a Christian.”

Rev. 8:8, “The third part of the sea became blood,” and in verse
11, “Many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.”

In all these cases (but the last) the verb is γίνομαι (ginomai), to
become: and, if the Lord had meant that the bread became His body,
that is the verb He would have necessarily used. The fact that He did
not use it, but used the simple verb, εἶμι (eimi), instead, {6., “is,”
proves conclusively that no change was meant, and that only
representation was intended.

Just as when we are looking over a map and say, “This is
England,” “This is America,” “This is Palestine,” etc., we do not mean
that that piece of paper is England, but we mean that those marks
upon it represent those respective countries.

From all this it is philologically, philosophically, and scientifically
clear that the words, “This is my body,” mean “This [bread] represents
my body.” And as Professor Macbeth has put it, “We trample on the
laws of nature, and we trample on the laws of language when we force
the verb ‘is’ to mean what it never does mean.”

And, besides all this, to pass from the use made of this perversion,
suppose for a moment that we grant the claim, and the words mean
that the Lord Jesus then and there did transmute the bread into His
own body (if we can imagine such an impossibility!), what then?
Where is there a breath about His giving that power to any one else?
Where is there one word about such gifts being conferred? And, if it
be claimed, as it is by some traitors in the Church of England, that the
words, “Do this,” convey that power and authority, it could have been
conveyed only to the eleven that were present. Where is there a
breath about not only giving them power, but delegating it to them to
give to others, and these to others again indefinitely? There is not one
single word expressed or implied that conveys the idea that one iota of
such power was conferred or delegated. So that the whole fabric of
transubstantiation rests on absolutely no foundation whatsoever!
There is a “missing link” which is fatal to the whole position.

And this, on the assumption which we have only for the moment
granted. But, when it is seen that not only is there this link missing,
which can never be supplied: but that there is also this claim which
can never be substantiated; we have an explanation of the Metaphor
which sweeps the dogma out of the Scriptures, and proves it to be a
fiction which is the outcome of ignorance, and this by arguments that
cannot be overthrown, and facts that cannot be denied.

Joh. 6:35. “I am the bread of life: {6., what bread does in supporting
natural life is a representation of what Christ does in supporting and
nourishing the new, Divine, spiritual life.

Joh. 8:12.-“l am the light of the world.”

Joh. 10:9.-“I ат the door”: i.e., | ат what a door is. | am the entrance
to the sheepfold, and to the Father. Yes, a door, and not a flight of
steps. A door, through which we pass in one movement from one side
to the other.

Joh. 15:5.-“I am the true vine.”
Here the word ἀληθινός (aleethinos) helps the figure, for it means
true as regards the reality in relation to shadows or representations.
Not “true” as opposed to what is false, but the “very” vine: the vine all
earthly vines represent, and to which they point in such Scriptures as
Isa. 5:1-30 and Psa. 80:1-19* [Note: See an Article, by the same
author, in Things to Come for July, 1899.]

Gal. 4:24.-“Which things are an allegory: for these are the two
covenants,” etc.

Hypocatastasis; or, Implication
A Declaration that implies the Resemblance or Representation; or
Comparison by Implication

Hy’-po-cat-as‘-ta-sis. Greek, ὑποκατάστασις, substitution or
implication; from ὑπό (hypo), underneath, κατά (kata), down, and
στάσις (stasis), a stationing. Hence, a putting down underneath.
