fallen; and what an example of the consequent loss which has
ensued.

This beautiful and far-reaching figure frequently occurs in
Scripture. The Lord Jesus Himself often used it, and that with
wondertul effect.

Its beauty and force will be at once seen, if we compare one or two
passages.

When, in Jer. 49:19, we read of the king of Babylon coming up
against Edom, it says: “Behold, he shall come up like a lion ... against
the habitation of the strong”: etc. Here, we have a Simile, and the
feelings are unmoved, as it is only against Edom that the assault is
made.

But it is a very different case in Jer. 4:7, where the same king of
Babylon is spoken of as coming up against Zion. In the heat of excited
feeling he is not named, but only implied.

“The lion is come up from his thicket.”

So, in all the other cases, it will be well to contrast every example
of Hypocatastasis with both Simile and Metaphor, in order to gather
the full force of its meaning and the reason for its use instead of either
of the other two.
Psa. 22:16 (17).-“Оод5 have compassed me about.”

Here He does not say that his enemies were like dogs, or that
they were dogs; no: the word “enemies” is not mentioned. It is implied:
and by a kind of Prosopopoeia, they are spoken of as “dogs.” It means
of course, “mine enemies have compassed me about” as the next.
sentence goes on to explain. See also under Paronomasia.
Mat. 15:13.-“Every plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted,
shall be rooted up.” This is Hypocatastasis, bordering on Allegory.
Persons are implied, though only plants are named. The solemn
lesson of this implication is, that unless the work in the heart be that of
God Himself, all is vain. It is useless therefore to attempt to effect
conversion or to impart a new nature by personal appeals,
persuasions, or excitement. This is only to make the flesh religious,
and “that which is born of the flesh is flesh.”

Mat. 16:6.-“Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and of the
Sadducees.” There the word “doctrine” is implied. Had the Lord said,
“the doctrine of the Pharisees is like leaven,” that would have been
Simile, and a cold, bare statement of fact; but He did not say so. Had
He said “the doctrine of the Pharisees is leaven,” that would have
been Metaphor, much bolder, much more forcible, but not so true to
fact though much truer to truth. But He did not say so. He took the
word “doctrine” and put it down underneath, and did not mention it at
all. He only implied it: and this was Hypocatastasis.

No wonder then that the attention of the disciples was excited and
attracted. No wonder their interest was aroused: for this was the
Lord’s object.

“They reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have
taken no bread. Which when Jesus perceived, he said unto them, O
ye of little faith, why reason ye among yourselves, because ye have
brought no bread? Do ye not yet understand?... How is it that ye do
not understand that | spake not to you concerning bread, that ye
should beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Saducees?
Then understood they how that he bade them not beware of the
leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and of the
Sadducees” (verses 6-12). This example is remarkable when we
compare it with another, in the previous chapter, which we give next;
and out of its textual order for the purpose of contrast.

Mat. 15:26.-“It is not meet to take the children’s bread, and to cast it to
dogs.” Here, the Lord Jesus, did not say to the woman of Canaan,
Thou art a dog of the Gentiles (which would have been Metaphor), but
He left out all reference to her, and only referred to her by implication,
substituting a “dog” for herself. The woman, unlike the disciples (in
chap. 16), at once saw and understood what the Lord implied, viz.,
that it was not meet to take that which belonged to Israel and give it to
a Gentile (or a dog of a Gentile as they were called by the Jews), “And
she said, Truth, Lord.” What she felt is clear: “It is quite true; Thou art
perfectly right; | called Thee ‘the Son of David,’ and deserved no
answer; | pleaded for ‘help’ and said: ‘Lord, help me’; but | made no
confession as to who the ‘me’ was: no acknowledgment of my
unworthiness and unmeetness as ‘a dog of the Gentiles.’ ” “Truth,
Lord: yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their master’s
table. Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy
faith.”

So, it is “great faith” to understand what the Lord implied by the
use of this beautiful figure, and it is “little faith” not to understand it!
even though the former was spoken of a Gentile woman, and the latter
of the apostles of the Lord. See also under Synecdoche and Meiosis.
Joh. 2:19.-“Destroy this temple, and in three days | will raise it up.”
The Lord Jesus did not say that His body was like the temple (that
would have been Simile), or that it was His body (that would have
been Metaphor). He merely implied the word body, as ver. 21 plainly
declares: “He spake of the temple of his body.”

Here was neither “great faith” nor ‘little faith,” but wilful unbelief of
His words. His disciples remembered them after He was raised from
the dead, and believed. His enemies remembered them before and
perverted them: “This fellow said, | am able to destroy the temple of
God, and to build it in three days” (Mat. 26:61). He said no such thing.
What He foretold was that they would destroy “this temple” of His
body, and that He should raise it again from the dead in three days,
and build it again. See also under Heterosis.

Other examples are:-

Mat. 3:10.-“Where, by the axe being laid to the root of the trees, etc.,
is implied the result of the ministry of John the Baptist.

The same is the case with ver. 12.

Mat. 5:29-30.-“May also be explained by this figure better than by
Hyperbole (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). The right eye, etc., is compared
by implication to the most highly prized possession.
Mat. 7:3-5.-“The mote and beam refer by implication to anything that
perverts the vision.

Mat. 7:6.-“Here “dogs” and “swine” are compared by implication to
persons.

Mar. 1:17.-“I will make you to become fishers of men.” The Lord does
not say like fishers, nor does He use direct metaphor. The
resemblance is only by implication.

Act. 20:29.-“I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves
enter in among you, not sparing the flock.”

Thus does the Holy Spirit inform us, by Implication, as to the true
character of “apostolic succession,” in order to impress the solemn
fact on our minds.

Allegory; or, Continued Metaphor and
Hypocatastasis
