The Allegory, therefore, is of two kinds; one in which it is continued

Metaphor (as in Psa. 23:1-6), where the two things are both
mentioned (Jehovah, and the Shepherd’s care), and what is asserted
belongs to the principal object; the other, in which it is continued
Hypocatastasis (Psa. 80:8-15), where only one thing is mentioned (the
vine), and what is asserted belongs properly to the Secondary object;
viz., to Israel. Israel whom it really refers, is not mentioned, but only
implied.
Isa. 5:1-6.-“This is an Allegory which combines both forms. “Judah
and Jerusalem” (concerning whom Isaiah prophecies 1:1) are again
represented as a vine, and the Allegory commences by implying them,
and afterwards proceeds to substitute them (vers. 3-7).

Allegory thus differs from Parable, for a parable is a continued
Simile. № never departs from the simple statement that one thing
resembles another. While the allegory represents, or implies, that the
one thing is the other. As in the allegory of the Pilgrim’s Progress:
What is spoken of one person refers to another person in similar
circumstances and experiences. In Psa. 80:1-19 and Isa. 5:1-30, what
is spoken of a Vine refers to Israel: but, in Genesis, what is stated of
Israel and Ishmael, Sarah and Hagar is all true history, yet in Gal.
4:1-31 it is made to speak of and set forth other truths, and hence
there it is, and is called an “Allegory” (Gal. 4:24).
No figure requires more careful discrimination than Allegory. And it
would be safer to say that there are no allegories in Scripture than to
follow one’s own judgment as to what is allegory, and what is not.

At any rate, we have only one which is distinctly declared to be
such; and that is Gal. 4:22; Gal. 4:24. “It is written, that Abraham had
two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a free woman. But he
who was of the bond-woman was born after the flesh; but he of the
free-woman was by promise. Which things are an Allegory”: or, which
things teach or tell us something beyond what is said.

The modern and common usage of the word allegoria is thus quite
different from this Scriptural definition. According to the modern sense
it is taken to mean a fictitious narrative which has another and deeper
meaning than that which is expressed.

An allegory may sometimes be fictitious, but Gal. 4:1-31 shows us
that a true history may be allegorized (i.e., be shown to have further
teaching in that which actually took place) without detracting from the
truth of the history. Here note this important fact: that, in either case,
Allegory is always stated in the past tense, and never in the future.
Allegory is thus distinguished from Prophecy. The Allegory brings
other teaching out of past events, while the prophecy tells us events
that are yet to come, and means exactly what is said.
Gen. 49:1-33.-“The prophetical blessing of Jacob is mixed. Part of it is
Simile (verse 4). Some is Metaphor (verse 9). In some parts the
Metaphors are repeated, in which case we have Allegory.
Jdg. 9:7-15.-“This is not a parable, as the A.V. [Note: The Authorized
Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] chapter-heading
calls it; because there is no similitude, by which one thing is likened to
another. It is a continued Hypocatastasis, only one of the two things
being plainly mentioned. Were it not for the interpretation given, in
verses 16-20, there would be nothing beyond what is implied.

It is interesting to note that the four trees referred to-“the Fig-tree,
the Olive, the vine, and the Bramble-“are the four which are used to
combine the whole of Israel’s history.
The fig-tree represents the National position of Israel, from which
we learn (in the Synoptic Gospels) that it withered away and has been
cut down.

The olive tree represents the Covenant privileges of Israel (Rom.
14:1-96): which are now in abeyance.

The vine represents Israel’s Spiritual blessings, which henceforth
are to be found only in Christ, the True Vine (Joh. 15:1-27).

The bramble represents the Antichrist, in whose shadow they will
yet trust, but who will be to Israel a consuming fire in the day of
“Jacob’s trouble’-“the great Tribulation.”* [Note: See Things to Come
for July, 1899. A. Holness, 14 Paternoster Row.]

Isa. 28:20 is Allegory: i.e., repeated Hypocatastasis, only one part of
the figure being mentioned: viz., the bed and its covering, and not the
people to whom it refers. The prophet is speaking of the great fear
which ought to agitate the people of Judea at the speedy coming of
Sennacherib; but they preferred to be left in their false security. By this
beautiful allegorical illustration they are informed that their rest should
be restless, and their sleep should be soon disturbed.

Mat. 3:10; Mat. 3:12 is repeated Hypocatastasis, and therefore
Allegory.
Mat. 5:13 is the same, following on “Ye are the salt of the earth,”
which is Metaphor.
Mat. 7:3-5 is the same; only one thing, the mote and the beam, being
named. What they mean is only implied.
Mat. 9:15 is the same, the meaning being implied.
Mat. 9:16-17.-“The “old piece” on the new implies the solemn lesson
as to the impossibility of reforming the Old nature.
Mat. 12:43-45.-“When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man,” etc.
This is an Allegory. It is to be interpreted of the Jewish nation, as
verse 45 declares. By application also it teaches the unclean spirit’s
going out of his own accord, and not being “cast out” (verse 28, 29).
When he is “cast out,” he never returns; but when he “goes out,” he
comes back; and finds only a “reformed character,” instead of the Holy
Spirit indwelling in the one who is born again.
Luk. 9:62.-“No man having put his hand to the plough, and looking
back, is fit for the kingdom of God.” This is a brief allegory.

For other examples, see Joh. 4:35. Rom. 11:16-18, etc.; 13:11, 12.
10ο. 3:6-8; 1Co. 3:12-15; 1Со. 5:7-8. 2Co. 3:2-3; 2Co. 5:1, etc.;
10:3-5; 11:2. Gal. 6:8. Eph. 6:11, etc.
Parabola; or, Parable: i.e., Continued Simile
Comparison by continued Resemblance
Par-ab’-o-la. Greek, παραβολή (pa-rab’-o-lee), a placing beside for
the purpose of comparison, from παρά (para), beside, and βάλλειν
(ballein), to throw or cast.

The classical use of the word was for one of the subdivisions of
παράδειγµα (paradeigma), an example, viz., a presentation of an
analogous case by way of illustration.

In the LXX. [Note: XX. The Septuagint Version (325 Б.с.).] it
occurs about thirty times as the translation of 22? (mahshal), and of
no other word: and, if we look at some of the sayings to which the
word “parable” is applied, the meaning which was attached to it will be
clearly seen.
1Sa. 10:12 : We read of “the proverb,” “Is Saul also among the
