1Sa. 10:12 : We read of “the proverb,” “Is Saul also among the
prophets?” So 1Sa. 24:14 (13): Of “the proverb of the ancients,”
“Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked.” Compare Eze. 12:22; Eze.
16:44; Eze. 18:2. Deu. 28:37. 2Ch. 7:20. Psa. 44:14 (15). Jer. 24:9.
But see below under Parcemia.

Growing out of this came a later meaning of 22? (mahshal) as
used of any saying which required an explanation. We see this as
early as in Eze. 20:47-49.
In the New Testament instances of the word, it is used of a story
with a hidden meaning, without pressing, in every detail, the idea of a
comparison.

As the name of a Figure of Speech, it is limited to what we may
describe as repeated or continued Simile-an illustration by which one
set of circumstances is likened to another. It consists in likeness, not
in representation, and therefore is not a continued Metaphor, as some
have said; but a repeated Simile.

This likeness is generally only in some special point. One person
may be like another in appearance, but not in character, and vice
versa; so that when resemblance or likeness is affirmed it is not to be
concluded that the likeness may be pressed in all points, or extended
to all particulars.

For example, a lion is used as a resemblance of Christ, on account
of his strength and prowess. The Devil is likened to “a lion” because of
his violence and cruelty. Christ is compared to a thief, on account of
his coming, being unexpected; not on account of dishonesty.

The resemblance is to be sought for in the scope of the context,
and in the one great truth which is presented, and the one important
lesson which is taught: and not in all the minute details with which
these happen to be associated.

The interpretation of the parable must be further distinguished
from any application which may be made of it. For example: in the
Parable of the “Ten Virgins” (Mat. 25:1-12), the interpretation belongs
to some special point of time immediately preceding the return of the
Lord to the earth. This is indicated by the word “Then,” with which it
commences, and by its place in relation to the context. Any lesson for
ourselves, as to watchfulness on our part, must come as an
application of it to present circumstances.

So with the parable of the Great Supper (Luk. 14:16-24). The
application to the present time must not blot out the interpretation of it,
which refers to the successive ministries Connected with the
invitations to “the great supper.”

(1) “A certain man” sends “his servant” to those who had been
previously “bidden.” This was Peter’s first ministry (Act. 2:1-47 -vii.).
All excuse themselves.

(2) The “master of the house” sends him again to “the streets and
lanes of the city.” This is Peter’s second ministry (Act. 10:1-48 -xii.).

(3) Then “the lord” sends out another servant to “the highways and
hedges.” This is Paul’s ministry to the great Gentile world (Act.
-xxviii.)

Parables are used from the resemblance of one thing to another.
The thing, or history, or story may be true or imaginary; but the events
must be possible, or likely to have happened; at any rate those who
hear must believe that they are possible events, though it is not
necessary that the speaker should believe them.

Where they are impossible, such as trees or animals speaking and
reasoning, we have Fable; and if the Fable is explained, then we have
Allegory (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). See Jdg. 9:8-15, where we should
have Fable, but for the application of it, which we have in verse 16,
which renders it Allegory.

We do not propose to give even a list of the parables of Scripture,
as they can be so easily and readily found by the reader.
One word of caution, however, we must give: and that is
concerning the object of parables. The common idea is that they are
intended to make things clear and plain. Hence every young minister
and Sunday-school teacher turns to the parables as though they were
the simplest things in the world. Whereas they were spoken that the
truth might be veiled from those who “seeing, see not: and hearing,
hear not.” See Mat. 13:10-17. Hence they are among the most difficult
portions of God’s Word.

Without wearying the student with all the varying definitions and
explanations which Rhetoricians and Divines have given, we add what
is perhaps the best classification of Similitudes, viz.: that by P. Rutilius
Lupus.

|. Paradeigma.
1. Persons without words.
2. Words without persons.
3. Both persons and words.
Il. Parabola or Parable.
1. Icon. Simile forming a complete image.
2. Homeeon. Simile founded on certain points only.
3. Epagoge. Argument from induction.