The Repetition of the same Letters or Syllables at the end of
Successive Words
Hepr-moe-o-tel-eu’-ton. From ὅμοιος (homoios), like, and Τελευτή
(teleutee), an ending, i.e., words with like endings.

This is the opposite Figure to Homoeopropheron; and is used
when successive words end with the same or similar letters or
syllables.

These two figures are for the most part involved in others which
affect the whole of the connected words; and therefore we shall meet
with other examples as we proceed.
Mar. 12:30.-"This is the first commandment.” In the Greek this
sentence consists of three words, each ending with the same syllable:
αὕτη πρώτη ἐντολή (hautee ргфее entolee); and thus our attention is
called to this weighty saying.
1Pe. 1:3-4.-“Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a
lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an
inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away.”

Here, the Homaeoteleuton emphasizes the wondrous character of
this inheritance:-

ἄφθαρτον,  ἁμίαντον, ἅμαιραντον (aphtharton, amianton,
amaranton), uncorruptible, undefiled, unfading. It is difficult accurately
to reproduce the sound of this in English; except in marking it by the
voice in reading aloud.

We might say, incorruptible, indefilable, indestructible, but this
would be at the expense of exact accuracy in translating.
Homeeoptoton: or, Like Inflections
The Repetition of Inflections
Ho-me-op ‘-to-ton, from ὅμοιος (homoios), like, and TrTWoic (ptqpsis), a
falling, which in grammar means an inflection: i.e., a case formed by
the declining of a noun, or tenses, είο., in the conjugation of a verb: as
in the Latin message of Julius Сбзаг, “veni, vidi, vici,” i.e., “I came, |
saw, | conquered.”

This figure differs from the two former, in that the endings are not
only similar, but the similarity arises from the same inflections of verbs
or nouns, etc.

It will be seen, therefore, that this figure belongs peculiarly to the
Original languages, and cannot always be transferred in translation.
Rom. 12:15.-“Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them
that weep.” Here the inflections of the infinitive and participles
necessarily go together in the Greek, though, of course, not in the
English.

xaipelv μετὰ χαιρόντων. Chairein meta chairontdpn.

κλαίειν μετὰ κλαιοντων. Klaiein meta klaiontpn.
