synonymous with what we speak of as ambiguous; which means that
which is uncertain or equivocal.

A statement which is amphibological has two meanings, both of
which are absolutely true. (An equivocation has two meanings also,
but only one of them is true.) There are several such statements in
Scripture, and indeed all prophecies are more or less of this character.
They are the words of Jehovah, who was, and is, and is to come;
hence His words have a fulness of reference and meaning which one
interpretation often fails to exhaust. A prophecy may have a reference
to something at the time of its utterance. It may wait for its final
fulfilment in the remote future. And there may be an application to the
time between these two limits. Hence the Futurist and Prrterist
interpretations are both true, in so far as they are each a part of the
truth. But they are each wrong when the one is put for the other, and a
part is put for the whole.

A beautiful example of Amphibologia is furnished in
2Ki. 5:18.-“Go in peace.” This was Elisha’s answer to Naaman, who
wished to know whether the Lord would pardon if, when he went with
his master, the king of Syria into the temple of Rimmon, he bowed
himself there.
Elisha’s answer was an Amphibologia: “Go in peace.” If he had

said, “Yes; you may bow,” that would have been to sanction idolatry.
And if he had said, “No; you must not bow,” that would have been to
put Naaman’s conscience under a yoke of bondage to Elisha.
Eze. 12:13.-The term Amphibologia, however, refers more especially
to a prophecy like that concerning Zedekiah, king of Judah, in Eze.
12:13 : “I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans; yet
shall he not see it, though he shall die there.” This prophecy, by itself,
is almost in the form of an nigma (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ): for it is
capable of two interpretations, both of which are true. The other is in
Jer. 34:3 : “Thine eyes shall behold the eyes of the king of Babylon,
and he shall speak with thee mouth to mouth, and thou shalt go to
Babylon.”

Zedekiah, in his unbelief and perverseness, determined not to
believe either of these prophecies, because he could not understand
them. So Josephus tells us. Yet both were perfectly true, as the
fulfilment proved.

Zedekiah had his eyes put out by the king of Babylon at Riblah
(2Ki. 25:7. Jer. 39:7; Jer. 52:11). He spoke to the king of Babylon, and
saw him; and he was afterwards taken to Babylon, but did not see it,
though he died there (Eze. 17:16).
Joh. 19:22.-“What | have written | have written.” Pilate said this to
convey two meanings. First, to state a matter of fact; and second, to
dismiss an inconvenient subject; implying that he did no wish to alter
what he had written, and yet did not declare that he would not. The
history seems to imply that he did afterwards either alter it or permit it
to be altered. For

(1) The inscription in Joh. 19:19 was written (probably in Latin) and
put on the cross before it left Pilate’s presence.

(2) The inscription in Mat. 27:37 was written probably in Hebrew,
and placed over his head, not by the soldiers who nailed him to the
cross, but by the persons, “they,” who crucified him. This was not so
placed until after the garments had been divided, and the soldiers had
“sat down to watch him there.”

(3) The inscription in Luk. 23:38 appears to have been of Hebrew
origin (the Hebrew being put last, whereas in Pilate’s (John) the Latin
was last). It was not seen till near the sixth hour, and was apparently
the cause of the reviling which followed, “Jesus” being omitted from
Matthew's, which seems to have been intermediate between John’s
and Luke’s, while Mark’s was probably the same as that to which Luke
refers and gives merely another translation of the Hebrew.
It is impossible for us, now, to know what discussion went on
during the day. All that we know is, from Joh. 19:1-42, that the Jews
earnestly desired to have it altered, and that Pilate did not decidedly
refuse at the time. So that it is probable that the discussions
continued, and these different inscriptions are the evidence of it, put
up in different terms, and at different times: or it may be that it was the
various translations that were so put up.

From these considerations we would suggest that the difficulty felt
as to the variations in the wording of the inscriptions may be removed
more easily and satisfactorily by believing that there were at least
three inscriptions put up at different times during the day, and that
these, being changed, differed from each other. If this be not the
explanation then another series of difficulties is created-as to the
sequence of the events recorded in the different gospels.

Our present suggestion meets both sets of difficulties at once.
Act. 17:22 is another example. “Ye men of Athens, in all things |
perceive that ye are very religious.” (See R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] margin, somewhat religious).

This has two interpretations: for they were truly very “religious,”
and yet knew nothing of true Christianity.

We thus learn that Christianity is religion; but religion is not
necessarily Christianity.

To say that a person is religious tells us nothing: for he may be a
Buddhist, a Mahommedan, a Roman Catholic, or a votary of any other
religious system; but it does not follow that such an one is “in Christ,”
and therefore a. Christian.

Eironeia; or, ΙΓΟΠΥ
The Expression of Thought in a form that naturally conveys its
opposite
