sarcasmos), from σαρκάζω (sarkaz6), to tear flesh as dogs do; hence,
a rending or tearing or wounding with cutting words; sarcasm. /rony is
so called when it is used as a taunt or in ridicule.

We have not arranged our examples in these three divisions, but
have combined these together in five other divisions more simply,
thus:-

|. Divine Irony. Where the speaker is Divine.

Il. Human Irony. Where the speaker is a human being.

Ill. Peirastic Irony. Where the words are not spoken ironically in
the ordinary sense, but peirastically: i.e., by way of trying or
testing (PEIRASTIKOS).

IV. Simulated Irony. Where the words are used by man in
dissimulation or hypocrisy.

V. Deceptive Irony. Where the words are not only hypocritical, but
false and deceptive.

1. Divine Irony:
Where the speaker is Divine
Gen. 3:22.-“And the Lord God said: Behold the man is become as one
of us, to know good and evil.”

Man had not become “as one of us.” He had become a wreck and
а ruin, even as man. These words call our attention to verse 5, and
show how false was the Serpent's promise.
Deu. 32:37.-“And he shall say: Where are their gods, their rock in
whom they trusted, Which did eat the fat of their sacrifices, and drank
the wine of their drink-offerings? let them rise up and help you, and be
your protection.”

This is Divine Sarcasm; for their gods were no rock or defence,
neither did they accept offerings or give help.
Jdg. 10:14.-“Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; let
them deliver you in the time of your tribulation.” This was Divine
Sarcasm, for those gods could neither hear nor deliver.
Job. 38:4.-“Where wast thou when | laid the foundations of the earth?”
Verse 5. “Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who
hath stretched the line upon it?” So throughout this chapter.

This is the Divine Sarcasm on all scientists who profess to
understand and tell us all about the earth, its size, and its shape, and
its weight, etc., etc.

Considering the various changes which have taken place during
the centuries in what is called “science,” we may well lay this question
to heart, emphasised as it is by being Divine Irony.

Psa. 60:8 (10).-“Philistia triumph thou over me.” This is said ironically;
for the truth is put literally in Psa. 108:9 (10): “Over Philistia will |
triumph.” See margin and compare Exo. 8:9 (5).

Ecc. 11:9 is generally considered to be Irony, but we can hardly so
regard it. It is almost too solemn to be Irony. It says: Do it; do all this:
“but know thou that for all these things God will bring thee into
judgment.”

Isa. 2:10.-“Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of the
Lord and for the glory of his majesty.” This is /rony: to show that
neither rocks nor any other shelter can save man from the judgments
in “the day of the Lord.”
Isa. 8:9-10.-This /rony is meant to emphasise the fact that; however
much men may unite together against God, it will all come to naught.
These are the words of God in the mouth of the prophet.

Isa. 17:3.-“They shall be as the glory of the children of Israel”: {6., the
glory of Damascus and Syria shall fade as the glory of Israel had
passed away. The word “glory” is thus marked by Antiphrasis to point
us to that which had been lost, and the height from which Israel had
fallen.

Isa. 21:5.-This is God’s message to Babylon: to show that all her
preparation for defence would not prevent the ultimate cry: “Babylon is
fallen, is fallen.” See verses 6-9.

Isa. 29:1.-“Woe to Ariel, to Ariel (i.e., the lion of God), the city where
David dwelt!” This glorious title is put by Metonymy (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ) for Jerusalem: and, is used here in order to emphasise, by
Irony, the depth to which the City had fallen from the height of its past
glory.

Isa. 50:11.-This is Divine Irony to show the vanity of striving for light
and happiness apart from God. It is a solemn warning for all those to-
day who are seeking to bring about a millennium without Christ.

Isa. 57:12.-“I will declare thy righteousness and thy works.” These
words were addressed, by sarcasm, to an apostate and wicked
People. The word “righteousness,” by Antiphrasis, marks the fact,
which is clear from the words which follow: “For they shall not profit
thee.” Had the works been really righteous, they would have profited.
Isa. 57:13.-“When thou criest, let thy companies deliver thee.” To
show that the abundance of riches or people cannot deliver in the day
of trouble.

Jer. 7:21.-"Thus saith the Lord God of hosts, the God of Israel: Put (or
add) your burnt offerings unto your sacrifices and eat flesh.” That this
was Irony is clear from what follows. They were the sacrifices of
hypocrites which Jehovah would not accept.

Jer. 11:15.-“What hath my beloved to do in mine house?” What
follows clearly shows what is meant by the Antiphrasis in the word
“beloved.”
Jer. 22:20.-“Go up to Lebanon, and cry; and lift up thy voice in
Bashan, and cry from the passages.” This is Irony, or Sarcasm,
addressed to the family of Jehoiakim, who looked to Egypt for help
against the king of Babylon: but 2Ki. 24:7 tells us that “the king of
Egypt came not again any more out of his land; for the king of Babylon
had taken from the river of Egypt unto the river Euphrates all that
pertained to the king of Egypt.” It was no use, therefore, for Jehoiakim
to go up to the passes of Lebanon or Bashan and cry out for those
who before had helped.

Jer. 46:9.-The words of God to Egypt. Shown to be /rony by verse 10.
Jer. 46:11.-“Go up into Gilead, and take balm, О virgin, the daughter
of Egypt.” This is shown to be /rony by the words that follow: “In vain
shalt thou use many medicines; for thou shalt not be cured.”

Jer. 51:8.-“Howl for her (Babylon); take balm for her pain, if 5ο be she
may be healed.” But the context shows that it was destruction, and not
healing, that awaited her. So verse 11.

Lam. 4:21.-“Rejoice and be glad, О daughter of Edom,” etc. This is
Irony; for judgment is announced in verse 22. The meaning simply is,
that, however much Edom might rejoice, the punishment of her iniquity
should be accomplished.
Eze. 3:24.-“Go, shut thyself within thine house.” But the 25th verse
shows that however closely he might shut himself up his enemies
should find him and bind him.
Eze. 20:39.-“As for you, О house of Israel, thus saith the Lord God;
Go ye, serve ye every one his idols,” etc.

It is impossible that Adonai Jehovah should command idolatry. It is
Irony, as is clear from the context.
Eze. 28:3.-“Behold, thou art wiser than Daniel; there is no secret that
they can hide from thee.”

God thus ironically addresses the king of Tyre. Daniel, on account
of Divine gifts, was esteemed most wise. But the king of Tyre was a
mere man, as verse 2 declares.
Amo. 4:4-5.-“Come to Bethel and transgress; at Gilgal multiply
transgression; and bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes
after three years: And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and
proclaim and publish the free offerings: for this liketh you (i.e., you
love to do this), O ye children of Israel.”

That this is Irony and sarcasm is clear from the conclusion of the
address in verse 12. Deu. 14:28 and Lev. 7:13 are the passages
referred to.

Nah. 3:14.-“Draw thee waters for the siege, fortify thy strongholds”:
etc.: {Θ., prepare as you will, but all your labour will be in vain. (See
under Heterosis).

Zec. 11:13.-“A goodly price.”

The word “goodly” is used by Antiphrasis, to denote the opposite.
Mal. 1:9.-“And now, | pray you, beseech God (ΕΙ) that he will be
gracious unto us.”

These words are put by God in the mouth of the priests, and His

answer is given in what follows.
Mar. 7:9.-Here the /rony is beautifully brought out by translating καλῶς
(kal6s) “full well.” καλῶς means with propriety, suitably, becomingly. №
suited the people to set aside the commandment of God, and make
void the Word of God by their tradition. This exactly suited and
corresponded to the action of those who washed the outside but were
defiled within.

See the whole context, which applies with force, to-day, to all mere
philanthropists and reformers, who preach a “social” Gospel, in order
to raise the ungodly in the social scale, but leave the masses short of
that which God requires.
“Well do ye reject.” No, ye do evil!
Luk. 11:41.-“But rather give alms of such things as ye have; and,
behold, all things are clean unto you.” It is /rony. It was what the
Pharisees taught, but it was not true.

Luk. 13:33.-“I must walk to-day, and to-morrow, and the day following:
for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.”

This is a message to Herod, whom He calls (by Hypocatastasis)
“that fox” (or that vixen), and the last words are Ironical, as is clear
from the solemn exclamation which follows in the next verse.

The sense of the whole passage seems to be:-We are still three
days’ walk from Jerusalem. To Jerusalem | must get: to die there: for
Jerusalem is become the natural place for prophets to perish in. So
you need not threaten me with death from Herod. It is not within his
jurisdiction-(see 23:7: “As soon as he knew that He belonged to
Herod's jurisdiction”)-that | must die.

Joh. 3:10.-“Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things?”
This is a species of mild /rony.

Joh. 7:28 is Irony, and refers back to verse 27. “Whom ye know not”
points to the fact that they knew not God, and, therefore, they knew
not Christ.
1Co. 6:4.-“Set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church.”

The next verse shows clearly that this is /rony, and a
condemnation of what they had really done. For he asks, “Is it so that
there is not a wise man among you? No; not one that shall be able to
judge between his brethren?”
2Co. 5:3.-“If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked.”

Here, the /rony being missed, the text has been altered in some
MSS. (περ, as / suppose, for ye, at least). There is no sense unless
the Irony is seen. “If indeed being clothed also, we shall not be found
naked,” as some of you believe who say “that there is no resurrection
of the dead” (1Co. 15:12), and therefore no resurrection body for us to
be clothed-upon with.
2Co. 13:5.-“Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove
your own selves.”

The Hyperbaton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), by which the pronoun
ἑαυτούς (heautous), yourselves, is placed at the beginning of the
sentence, (the object before the subject), shows the emphasis which
is to be placed upon it, and tells us that this is the serious irony of a
grieved heart, and not a general command. These Corinthian saints,
having been beguiled by the Jewish enemies of the apostle to
question his apostleship, actually sought a proof of Christ speaking in
him! So he meets their questionings with another question: “Since ye
seek a proof of Christ speaking in me ... YOURSELVES examine ye,
if ye are in the faith; YOURSELVES prove ye. Know ye not that Jesus
Christ is in you except ye be reprobates?”

The answer to this question, thus ironically put, would prove them
to be the seals of his ministry, and the real proof of his apostleship.

Here is no command for the saints to-day, no admonition to
practise continual self-examination and introspection, to see whether
they are in the faith; for Christ is in them. Read the words in
connection with the context, and the force of this solemn /rony will be
at once seen: and it will be used no more to vex and perplex God’s
dear children, by taking words which refer to their state to upset their
standing, which is perfect and complete “in Christ.”

Il. Human Irony:
Where the speaker is a human being

1Sa. 26:15.-The words of David to Abner: “Art thou not a valiant man?
And who is like to thee in Israel?”

This sarcasm was used to show how Abner had neglected his
duty.
1Ki. 18:27.-The words of Elijah to the prophets of Baal were sarcasm
of the severest kind.
1Ki. 22:15.-The words of the prophet Micaiah to Ahab and
Jehoshaphat: “Go, and prosper’; to show by /rony the false
prophecies of Ahab’s own prophets.
2Ki. 8:10.-The words of Elisha to Hazael: “Go, say unto him (i.e., the
king of Syria), Thou mayest certainly recover: howbeit the Lord hath
shewed me that he shall surely die.”

By the Irony in the first clause, Elisha stated a fact, that there was
no reason why Benhadad should not recover. In the latter clause he
revealed to Hazael that he knew he meant to murder him, as it came
to pass. Compare verses 11, 14 and 15.

Job. 12:2.-“No doubt but ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with
you.” This powerful Irony is meant to emphasise the fact that Job’s
friends had no more knowledge than he: and may be used with great
truth of many who arrogate to themselves the right to sit in judgment
on their sinful fellow-servants.

Job. 26:2-3 -The words of Job to his friend: “How hast thou helped
him that is without power,” etc.

Mat. 11:19.-“А friend of publicans and sinners.” This was said in /гопу,
but it expresses a blessed fact for all Divinely-convicted sinners.

Luk. 15:2.-“This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.” This
was said in Irony, but it expresses a most blessed truth for all who
know and feel themselves to be sinners.
Joh. 18:38.-“Pilate saith unto him, What is truth?”

By his not waiting for the answer it seems that the question wasnot
seriously put. (See under Erotesis). So, his words in
Joh. 19:14.-“Behold your king,” were also /rony.
1Co. 4:8.-This verse is true /rony. But other figures are involved. See
under Asyndeton, Anabasis, and Metonymy (of the subject).
2Co. 10:12.-In the words, “we dare not,” the Apostle intimates, by
Irony, that he was far beyond those who thought themselves to be
somebodies.
2Co. 11:19.-“Ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye yourselves are wise.”
2Co. 12:13.-“Forgive me this wrong.”

Ill. Peirastic Irony:
By way of trying or testing

This third kind of /гопу is where the words may not mean exactly what
they seem to say, but are used by way of trial to the persons to whom
they were spoken, not sarcastically, but peirastically: i.e., by way of
trying and testing. The Greeks called this PEIRASTIKOS, πειραστικός,
fitted for trying and testing; from πειράζω (peirazé), to make proof or
trial.

Gen. 19:2.-The angels said to Lot, “Nay; but we will abide in the street
all night.” This was said to try Lot, to see what he would do; for they
were not sent to abide in Sodom at all.

Gen. 22:2.-God said to Abraham, “Take now thy son, thine only son,
Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and
offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which |
will tell thee of.” God said this (it distinctly says) to try him (not tempt,
in our modern use of the word).

Verse 12 farther shows that God never intended that the sacrifice
should actually take place. Abraham thought He did, and believed
that, if Isaac had been offered, God would have raised him from the
dead. See Heb. 11:17-19.

It seems very probable that this was the spot where the altar of
burnt offering was afterwards erected. Compare 1Ch. 21:26; 1Ch.
21:28; 1Ch. 22:1, and 2Ch. 3:1.

Mat. 15:24.-Jesus said to the disciples what was perfectly true as a
matter of fact, and as though to endorse their position, “I was not sent
except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.” But it was said by way
of trial to the woman’s faith.
So also in verse 26, when He said to her: “It is not meet to take the
children’s bread (with emphasis on children, by Antimereia, q.v. [Note:
Which see.] ), and to cast it to the little dogs,” meaning herself (by
Hypocatastasis, q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). See also this verse under
Meiosis and Synecdoche.

IV. Simulated Irony:
Where the words in question are used by man either in
dissimulation or hypocrisy

Gen. 37:19.-Joseph’s brethren said: “Behold this dreamer cometh.”
The Heb. is stronger than this, as is partly shown in the margin:
“Behold that Master of the dreams, there he comes.” They did not
mean this, for see verses 5 and 11.

2Sa. 6:20.-Michal to David: “How glorious was the king of Israel to-
day!”

That this was hypocritical is shown by verse 16: “She despised
him in her heart.” And so David understood it (verses 21, 22). Note
that the uncovering of which Michal spoke referred only to his royal
robes; as is clear from 1Ch. 15:27, which tells us what he was
“clothed” with.
Psa. 22:8 (9).-“He trusted in the Lord that he would deliver him.”

Most true, but not meant as truth in the lips of His enemies, as is
clear from Mat. 27:43. See also under Heterosis.
Isa. 5:19.-These words are used hypocritically, as is clear from the
“Woe” pronounced on the speakers in verse 18.
Mat. 22:16.-The disciples of the Pharisees, and the Herodians say to
Christ: “Master, we know that thou art true,” etc.
Mat. 27:29.-“Hail, King of the Jews!” So also verses 40, 42 and 43;
Mar. 15:20, etc.

V. Deceptive Irony:
Where words are clearly false as well as hypocritical

Gen. 3:4-5.-Words clearly false, for Satan knew the opposite: and Eve
ought to have known the same, as they flatly contradicted the words of
the Lord God.
Mat. 2:8.-Herod says to the wise men: “Go and search for the young
child; and when ye have found him, bring me word again, that | may
come and worship him also” (or that | also may come and worship
him).
This was false, for Herod wanted to slay Him, and not to worship

Him.

Oxymoron; or, Wise-Folly

A Wise saying that seems Foolish
Ox’-y-m6’-ron. Greek, ὀξύμωρον, from ὀξύς (oxus), sharp, pointed,
and µωρός (méros), dull, foolish.

This is a figure, in which what is said at first sight appears to be
foolish, yet when we come to consider it, we find it exceedingly wise.

It is a smart saying, which unites words whose literal meanings
appear to be incongruous, if not contradictory; but they are so cleverly
and wisely joined together as to enhance the real sense of the words.
The Latins called it ACUTIFATUUM (a-cu -ti-fat-u-um), from acutus,
sharp or pointed (English, acute), and fatuus, foolish, fatuous, or
simple.
