Homeeoptoton: or, Like Inflections
The Repetition of Inflections
Ho-me-op ‘-to-ton, from ὅμοιος (homoios), like, and TrTWoic (ptqpsis), a
falling, which in grammar means an inflection: i.e., a case formed by
the declining of a noun, or tenses, είο., in the conjugation of a verb: as
in the Latin message of Julius Сбзаг, “veni, vidi, vici,” i.e., “I came, |
saw, | conquered.”

This figure differs from the two former, in that the endings are not
only similar, but the similarity arises from the same inflections of verbs
or nouns, etc.

It will be seen, therefore, that this figure belongs peculiarly to the
Original languages, and cannot always be transferred in translation.
Rom. 12:15.-“Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them
that weep.” Here the inflections of the infinitive and participles
necessarily go together in the Greek, though, of course, not in the
English.

xaipelv μετὰ χαιρόντων. Chairein meta chairontdpn.

κλαίειν μετὰ κλαιοντων. Klaiein meta klaiontpn.
The two lines likewise each exhibit an example of Polyptqbton (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ), and also of Homoeopropheron (q.v. [Note: Which
see.]).

The figure may be reproduced in English thus:-

Be cheerful with those that are glad,

Be tearful with those that are sad.
2Co. 11:3.-Lest your minds “be corrupted from the simplicity
(ἀπλότητος, haploteetos) and purity (аумтптос, hagnoteetos), that is
towards (i.e., with reference to) Christ.”

This is the reading of the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ,
and is according to all the critical Greek Texts.

In English the words maybe rendered “simpleness and
singleness.”
2Ti. 3:2-3.-In these two verses nearly all the words end in -οι (-o/), the
masculine plural case-termination.

These similar endings may arise, as above, where the words are
quite different. But when the two words are derived from the same
root; or when they occur, not in the language in which they appear, but
in the language from which they are translated (either written or
spoken), then the figure is called-
Paromeeosis: or, Like-Sounding Inflections
The Repetition of Inflections similar in Sound

Par’-o-moe-o-sis. Greek, παροµοίωσις, assimilation, especially of
words; assonance. It is from παρά (para), beside, and ὅμοιωσις
(homoosis), likeness.

It is called also PAROMCEON, παρόµοιον, nearly like.
