Apostle. “By no means: otherwise how shall God judge the world?”

Jew. “[This is hardly satisfactory]; for, if the truth of God [in visiting
His nation with His wrath] hath redounded unto His glory through my
lie [in affirming that Jesus is not the Messiah], why am | also [as an
individual] still further judged as a sinner?”

Apostle. “And why not add, (as we are slanderously reported to
practise, and as some affirm that we say), ‘Let us do evil that good
may come’? Of these the condemnation is just.”

Jew. “Well, then; Do we Jews excel the Gentiles?”

Apostle. “Not at all; for we have already proved both Jews
(2:21-24) and Gentiles (1:18-32) to be all under sin. Even as it
standeth written (in various Scriptures, which are selected and quoted
from Psa. 53:1-3; Psa. 14:1-3, etc.).”

Thus the figure Antimetathesis, or Dialogue, helps to clear the
sense and to indicate the manner in which certain words and
expressions should be translated.

Rom. 11:18.-“Boast not against the branches. But, if thou boastest
[know thou that] thou bearest not the root, but the root [beareth] thee.”
Here the apostle is addressing “you Gentiles” as such: not the
saints of God.
Rom. 11:19.-“Thou wilt plead then, The branches were broken off,
that | might be grafted in.”

This was true as to the effect, but not as to the cause. It was what
a Gentile, as such, would say, but not what the Holy Spirit said. No!
On the contrary, it was “Because of unbelief they were broken off.”

And so he goes on to speak of the Gentiles by Antimetathesis,
greatly enhancing and intensifying the argument.
Rom. 14:15.-“But, if thy brother is grieved with thy meat.” Here, the
change of persons emphasises the point that it is “thy brother” in
Christ. Not merely а fellow-man, but thy brother's Christian
conscience, which is stumbled at thy eating that which has been
offered to idols.
1Co. 7:16.-Here, the individual husband and wife are singled out and
addressed, as though they were present.
1Со. 15:35.-Here, an objector is singled out: perhaps the actual words
of a known person are quoted and dealt with.
Association; or, Inclusion
When the Writer or Speaker associates himself with those whom he
addresses
This name is given to the Figure because the writer or speaker turns,
and (1) includes himself in what he says for others: (2) or, vice versa,
includes others in what he says of himself; (3) or, includes many in
what he says of one.
We have examples in

Act. 17:27.-“That they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel
after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us.”
