So that the figure consists of a calling on others to rejoice over

something, instead of merely stating the thing as a matter of fact; thus
emphasizing and calling attention to it.
Deu. 32:43.-The song of Moses, having commenced with an
Apostrophe (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), and carried us through the
whole history of Israel (see under Correspondence, page 375), ends
with a glorious and triumphant Poeanismos, in which Jehovah calls on
all the nations to rejoice with His People for His judgment on their
enemies, and the cleansing of His People and His land: thus carrying
us right on to the glory of millennial days.

The fourth book of the Psalms anticipates this time of rest and
peace for the earth. Hence all are called on to rejoice now (by
Prolepsis) in view of that glorious time.

Α 95. Exhortation for His People and sheep (verse 1), “to come

before His presence with thanksgiving” (verse 2). For the Lord
is “great” (verse 3).
В а xcvi. A summons to sing the “New Song,” “for he
cometh.”
Ь — xcvii. The New Song, “The Lord Reigneth.”
В а xceviii. A summons to sing the “New Song” “for he
cometh.”
Ь — xcix. The New Song, “The Lord Reigneth.”

Α ο. Exhortation for His People and sheep (verse 3), to “come
before his presence with singing” (verse 2), for the Lord is
“good” (verse 5).

Isa. 44:23.-“Sing, O ye heavens; for the Lord hath done it, Shout,” etc.
Zep. 3:14.-“Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel; be glad and
rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.”

Then follows the reason to the end of the prophecy.

Zec. 9:9.-“Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of
Jerusalem: behold thy King cometh unto thee:” etc.

Luk. 10:21.-“In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, | thank
thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these
things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto
babes.”

See under Catachresis.

Php. 4:4.-“Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again | say, Rejoice.”

See under Epanadiplosis.
Jam. 1:9.-“Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted.”

The Scriptures abound with beautiful examples. See Psa. 57:8 (9),
Isa. 42:10; Isa. 49:13. Jer. 51:48. Rev. 18:20, etc.

Asterismos; or, Indicating
The Calling Attention to by making a Star or Mark

As’-ter-is’-mos. Greek, ἁστερισμός, a calling of attention to a thing by
making an asterisk (from ἀστήρ, asteer, a star). A marking by putting a
star (* or ), in order to direct particular attention to a passage or
statement. Hence the figure is used when we employ (not an asterisk)
but some word, which answers the same purpose, in directing the eye
and the heart to some particular point or subject, such as “Lo!”
“Behold!”

As a concordance will furnish a complete list of these, it is not
necessary for us to give examples. We will only note that the word
