The following are all the Acrostic or Abecedarian passages in the
Bible, in which the order of the Alphabet is followed:

Psa. 10:1-18.-These two Psalms are linked together by an irregular
alphabet running through, and thus combining the two. Psa. 9:1-20
beginning with f and Psa. 10:1-18 with é, which begins the last half of
the alphabet.

The figure tells us that we are to connect these two Psalms
together, and shows us that we are to read them together, and that
their subject is one: viz.: “the man of the earth” (10:18), the Antichrist;
whose days, character, and end they give. While “the Great
Tribulation” is referred to twice (9:9 and 10:1). ENUIU ASFA, “times
of trouble.” A phrase which occurs only in these two places.

Other significant expressions also occur in each of the two
Psalms:
“Arise,” 9:19, 10:12; “the oppressed,” 9:9, 10:18; “forget not the
poor,” 9:12, 10:12; “the heathen,” 9:5, 15, 17, 19, 20, and 10:16.

Psa. 9:1-20 is “the expectation of the poor” (18). Psa. 10:1-18 is
“the desire of the meek’ (17).

The acrostic alphabet is incomplete and irregular, like the “times”
which these Psalms describe. We cannot reproduce the two Psalms
here, but can only indicate the Acrostic in them:-

f commences each of the four lines of verses 1, 2; a, Verse 3; a,
verse 5; ais wanting; a, verse 6; I, verses 7, 8, 9, 10; CG, verse 11; С,
verse 13; ὄ, verse 15; é, verse 17; é, verse 18. é, 10:1; i, verse 5;
ἤ, Verse 8; d, ή, 6, © are wanting; -, verse 12, is repeated from
9:19 in order to call our attention to the same words of the same
prayer; Tis found in verse 14; U, twice in verse 15; ή, in verse 17.

We must believe that the Acrostic is purposely incomplete, but
what the design and the lesson may be must be left to the patient
students of God’s word. It may be that it is to correspond with these
“times of trouble,” for they also will be broken up and incomplete.
Psa. 25:1-22 -Here again the Acrostic is designedly irregular, proving
its genuineness rather than suggesting its corruption.

This design is shown by the fact that, in Psa. 34:1-22, the same
letter | is omitted, and the same letter Gis duplicated by being added
for the last verse. Psa. 25:22; Psa. 34:22 commence with the same
word 6aa (pahdah), “redeem,” and both verses thus marked contain
a similar sentiment: Psa. 25:22, “Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his
troubles”: and 34:22, “The Lord redeemeth the soul of his servants.”
These two verses are thus made to stand out by themselves.

The Acrostic letters are thus distributed:-, verses 1 and 2; a,
verse 2 (second word); a, verse 3; a, verse 4; a, verse 5; | omitted;
verse 6; ς, verse 7; ὄ, verse 8; é, verse 9; 6 verse 10; é, verse 11;
i, verse 12; ᾱ, verse 13; ή, verse 14; n, verse 15; 6, verse 16; 6,
verse 17; - Omitted i, verse 18, 19; U, verse 20: ή, verse 21;
(repeated), verse 22.

Psa. 24:1-10 -Here, as in Psa. 25:1-22, the sixth letter | is omitted, the
alphabet ending at verse 21; and the 6 repeated thus puts verse 22
outside the alphabetical series.

Thus far the two Psalms (25 and 24) are framed on the same
model.

In this Psalm, with the above exception, there is one letter left for
each verse in its order.
Psa. 37:1-40 -Here the series is complete. The ἤ being masked
behind the preposition ё (in the word énléi, for ever, verse 28), and
the ή behind the conjunction | “put,” in verse 39.

Every letter has two verses of two lines each, except three: a,
verse 7; 6 verse 20, and -, verse 34, which have but one verse of
three lines each.* [Note: It is noteworthy that the first of these (y)
occurs seven verses from the beginning; the last, seven verses from
the end; while the middle letter (A) is the middle of the whole Psalm.]

The Acrostic is as follows:-I° commences verse 1; a, verse 3; 8,
verse 5; a, verse 7; a, verse 8; I, verse 10; CG, verse 12; ο, verse 14;
ὄ, verse 16; é, verse 18; δ, verse 20; é, verse 21; i, verse 23; d,
verse 25; ή, verse 27; ἔῆ, verse 28, third line (“they are preserved
for ever’); 6, verse 30; 6, verse 32; -, verse 34; ἴ, verse 35; U, 37;
lu, 1 [Note: Ginsburg’s Hebrew Bible omits the Vau (lJ verse 39.
Psa. 111:1-10 -The acrostic here is perfect. The Psalm has twenty-two
lines, which commence successively with the twenty-two letters of the
Hebrew alphabet.
Psa. 112:1-10 is formed on precisely the same model, and the two
Psalms form a pair, Psa. 111:1-10 being occupied with Jehovah and
Psa. 112:1-10 with the man that feareth Jehovah. They may be thus
compared-the letters marking the Correspondence (q.v. [Note: Which
see] ).
Psa. 111:1-10
οχι. a 1-3-1 His righteousness for ever.
b 4-8.-C Gracious and full of compassion; ever mindful
of His covenant.
ο 9, 10-0 His covenant and praise for ever.
Psa. 112:1-10
1128. 1-3.-[ His righteousness for ever.
Ь — 4-8.-С Gracious and full of compassion; in everlasting
remembrance.
ο 9, 10-0 His exaltation for ever.
Psa. 119:1-176 -This Acrostic Psalm differs from every other. It
consists of 176 verses, divided into 22 groups of eight verses each: (8
X 22 = 176). The eight verses of each group begin with the same
letter. For example: the first eight verses each begin with Aleph Г (А),
the second eight with Beth a (B); and so on through the whole Psalm.

It is very difficult to preserve this in a translation, and impossible
where the letters of one language are not the same either in power or
number or order.

It so happens, however, that the ninth portion (verses 65-72), in
which each verse begins with Teth ё (T), begins also with T in the
Authorized Version in all the verses except two (67 and 71). These
can be easily made to begin with T also, by changing the word
“Before” in verse 67 to Till; and the words “It is” in verse 71 to ’Tis.
Then it will exactly correspond to the Hebrew original.

Attempts have been made to render other portions in a similar
manner, but with little success. What comes naturally in an Original
Text, must be somewhat forced in translating it into another language.
We offer the following as an example:-

A.
Ah! the happinesses of the perfect in the way,
Such as walk in the law of Jehovah.
Ah! the happinesses of the keepers of His testimonies,
Who seek Him with their whole heart.
Assuredly they have not worked iniquity:
In His ways they ever walked.
As to Thy commandments-Thou hast commanded us,
That we should diligently keep them.
Ah! Lord, that my ways were prepared
To keep Thy statutes.
Ashamed, then, | shall never be,
While | have respect unto all Thy commandments.
All my heart shall praise Thee in uprightness,
While | learn the judgments of Thy righteousness.
All Thy statutes also | will keep:
Leave me not utterly.
B.
By what means shall a young man cleanse his way?
By taking heed thereto according to Thy word.
By every means my heart hath sought Thee:
Let me not err from Thy commandments.
Besides, | have laid up Thy word in my heart,
That | might not sin against Thee.
Blessed art Thou, O Jehovah,
Teach me Thy statutes.
By my lips have | recounted
All the judgments of Thy mouth.
By walking in Thy Mandate’s way,
| found joy beyond all wealth.
By Thy precepts shall | guide my musings,
And shall pore o’er Thy paths,
By thy statutes shall | be delighted;
Thy word | shall not forget.
Psa. 145:1-21 -Here the Acrostic is perfect, with the exception of the
letter Nun, d (N), which comes between verses 13 and 14.

It has evidently dropped out through the carelessness of some
scribe; for it must have been in the manuscripts from which the
Septuagint, Vulgate, Syriac, Arabic and Zthiopic Versions were made,
as they contain the verse. One Hebrew ms. has been found by Dr.
Ginsburg containing the verse; which reads, “The Lord is faithful in all
His words, and holy in all His works.”

Moreover, it falls in with the structure of the Psalm, for the
member, in which verse nun (d) occurs, consists of verses 13-20 and
is as follows:-

а 13. “Thou,” second person.

Ь — 14. “He,” third person.
а 15, 16. “Thou,” second person.
Ь 17-20. “He,” third person.
The members b and b thus commence with similar words.
The Psalm is “David's Psalm of praise.” It is the only Psalm that is
dignified by this title. It is a special Psalm, therefore, and the Acrostic
marks it as such, there being exactly 22 verses, one letter for each
verse, and each verse consisting of two lines.

The structure (see under Correspondence) shows that it consists
of seven members, arranged alternately, the subject of the first being
Praise promised, and that of the second, Praise offered in fulfilment of
that promise.

It is as follows:-

Psa. 145:1-21
А1 1, 2. Praise promised (first person) for Jehovah Himself.
B1 3. Praise offered (third person) to Jehovah.
A2 4-7. Praise promised (first and third persons alternately) for
Jehovah's works.
B2 8, 9. Praise offered (third person) for Jehovah's works.
A3 10-12. Praise promised (third person only) for Jehovah’s
kingdom.
B3 13-20. Praise offered (third person) for Jehovah’s kingdom.
A4 21. Praise promised (first and third persons) (eare, shall
bless, as in verse 10).
Pro. 31:10-31 is a perfect alphabetical Acrostic, marking and calling
our attention to this song in praise of a virtuous woman. Офаепет
calls it “a golden A B C for women.” It follows here, the words of a
faithful mother. The following is the structure of the passage:-
Α 10. The woman and her worth.
B1 11, 12. Her husband.
C 13-22. Her work.
B2 23. Her husband.
C 24-27. Her work.
B3 28, 29. Her children and her husband.
Α 30, 31. The woman and her worth.
Like Psa. 145:1-21 it consists of twenty-two verses, and each
verse contains two lines.
Lam. 1:1-22 is an acrostic chapter. It consists of 22 verses, each of
which commences with a successive letter of the alphabet, and each
consists of three lines, except verse 7 (ό, Zayin) which contains four
lines.
Lam. 2:1-22 is the same, except that in this case it is verse 19 (-,
Koph) which contains four lines. Й and ὃ (verses 16 and 17) are
transposed.
Lam. 3:1-66 is different. It consists of 66 verses; the first three each
commencing with f(A); the second three each commencing with

(B), and so on. Here, also as in chap. 2, Й and ὃ (verses 46-48
and 49-51) are transposed.
Lam. 4:1-22 -Here, there are 22 verses, each verse commencing
successively with the letters of the alphabet, and consisting of two
lines. Here, also as in chaps. 2 and 3, the Й апа ὃ (verses 16 and 17)
are designedly transposed.

These are all the Alphabetical Acrostics.

There are, however, others, to which our attention is called by the
Massorah, as well as by their being written in larger characters in
certain Manuscripts.

In these cases the Acrostic letters spell certain words. But these
are no more accidental than those which are alphabetical. Other
acrostics have been found; but, as they are without Massoretic or
Manuscript authority (and, therefore, probably are undesigned) we do
not notice them.

Psa. 96:11.-The Massorah has a rubric calling attention to the name
of Jehovah here in a complete sentence of four words:-* [Note:
Reading the English words backwards.]

ёшс! Auiei Ιά8ό aris
earth-the glad-be-let-and heavens-the rejoice-Let.

“Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad” (lit., “Let-rejoice
the-heavens and-let-be-glad the-earth’).

This is the great truth and the grand climax of God’s purposes,
which the Psalms as a whole set forth and declare. Especially so in
this fourth book of the Psalms, which reveals those purposes in
relation to the earth.

Psa. 96:1-13 is a call to “all the earth” (verse 1) to sing the “new
song,” and Psa. 97:1-12 is, or rather will yet be, the earth’s glad
answer to that call.* [Note: See A Key to the Psalms.]

Esther.-In the Book of Esther four times the name of Jehovah occurs
in the form of an Acrostic.t [Note: See a separate pamphlet on this
subject by the same author and publisher, The Name of Jehovah in
the Book of Esther.]

Jehovah had declared (Deu. 31:16-18) that if His people forsook
Him He would hide His face from them. Here this threatening was
fulfilled. But, though He was hidden from them, He was present,
working for them, to deliver them. Hence the outward form of the book
is in harmony with the circumstances of the people: Jehovah was not
with them, but He was for them; and therefore, though His name does
not occur so that it may be sounded and pronounced by the voice, it
appears, so that it may be visible to the opened eyes.
Further, the four Acrostics are all different from each other.
The First
occurs in 1:20. It is formed by the initial letters, for the event was
initial. It is formed by spelling the word backwards, for Jehovah was
overruling and turning back the wisdom of man. The four Hebrew
words are
авг les Gavi Cua
ie., “All the wives shall give,” or exhibiting a similar Acrostic in
English-
“Due Respect Our Ladies”
shall give to their husbands, etc.”
This counsel resulted in bringing Esther to the throne; so that,
when Haman’s plot had been made, it might be thwarted (4:14).
The Second
(5:4) is formed, as before, by the initial letters; for Jehovah was
initiating His plans: but it is spelt forwards (as in our common form of
Acrostics), for Jehovah was ruling rather than overruling. The four
Hebrew words are-
Cait aida laia а!
“Let the King and Haman come this day,” or,
“Let Our Royal Dinner

be graced this day by the King and Haman.” The name of Jehovah
appears in the invitation; for He was to be there in order to bring the
counsels of man to nought and” take the wise in their own craftiness.”

Nothing happens at the dinner beyond an invitation to Haman to
dine at the royal table the next day. “Then went Haman forth that day
joyful and with a glad heart” (5:9). Yes, “that day,” for it was his last!

The Third Acrostic
(5:13) is the beginning of the end. Hence it is formed by the final
letters, for the end was approaching. It is read backwards, for the Lord
was turning back all the proud purposes of Haman. Haman goes
home to his wife and says:

са réaal via ee
“This availeth me nothing,” or “Yet am |

saD, foR nO avail.

is all this to me.”

This sadness was a precursor of, and foreboded, his coming
execution. Haman dines on the morrow with the king and queen; and
events soon reached their climax; which comes in

The Fourth Acrostic
(7:7). It is again in the final letters, for Haman’s end had come. It is
spelt forwards; for Jehovah was ruling, and had determined the
event:-
вё 66ua (δ6ἱ ата

Haman saw “that evil was determined against him,” or, “For he

saw that there was
eviL tO feaR determineD
against him by the King.”

There was indeed evil to fear: for that evil had been determined
not by King Ahasuerus, but by Jehovah: and the evil came swiftly
upon him, for he was at once taken out and hanged.

Thus these four Acrostics at once conceal and reveal the Name of
Jehovah, and emphasize the four pivots on which the whole history
turns.

Est. 7:5.-This is another Acrostic for which there is Massoretic
authority, the letters being written in larger characters in certain MSS

It is that name by which God revealed himself to Moses and to
Israel, the “I AM,” who had come down to deliver them. He who came
down to deliver them in Egypt now comes down to deliver them in
Persia: and, though He was not revealed, nor His name written, yet
He has caused it to be emblazoned on the pages of the history.
When Ahasuerus learned from Esther, that “the Jews’ enemy” had
laid his plot to destroy the whole nation, he cries out in his ignorance,
“Who is he, and where is he
that durst presume in his heart to do so?” He uses the words of which
the final letters spell the name EHJHE (pronounced E-he-yhe both
backwards and forwards).
all са г© са аГ
EHEYEH knew who Haman was and where he was. He who is the
great “I am,” sees the end from the beginning; and both rules and
over-rules all events for the accomplishment of His purposes, and for
the deliverance of His People. (See Exo. 2:23-25; Exo. 3:14-15).
Acrostics, like many other figures, occur only in the Originals, and
cannot be reproduced in a translation.
It is possible also for figures to occur in a translation which are not
in the Hebrew or Greek! In such cases they are, of course, either
accidental or designed. In either case they are of no value or weight.
An Acrostic can be made, for example, in the English of Joh. 3:16,
which is accidental. But as it may be useful to some in teaching
others, we note it here-

Joh. 3:16

God so loved the world, that he gave his

Only begotten

Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not

Perish, but have

Everlasting

Life.

This verse contains the good news of the Gospel, which, by a
singular coincidence, is the very word which may thus be written as an
Acrostic.

2. Of the Same Word
(a) In the Same Sense
There are no less than twelve ways in which the same word may be
repeated in the same sense in the same sentence. The first is called (next)