exclamation. So that Ecphonesis is an outburst of words, prompted by
emotion, and is not used as though any reply were expected.

It was called also ANAPHONESIS, an’-a-phé’-nee’-sis, the same
word, with ама (ana), up, prefixed instead of ἐκ (ek), out, a lifting up of
the voice.

The exclamation itself is called ANAPHONEMA (An ‘-a-phé-nee-
ma).

The Latins called it EXCLAMATIO, exclamation.

But note that, when the exclamation occurs at the end of a
sentence, as an addition by way of conclusion, it is called Epiphonema
(see page 464).

When the Ecphonesis is an exclamation thrown in parenthetically,
it is called Interjectio (see page 478).

Jos. 7:7.-“And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God (Adonai Jehovah),
wherefore hast thou at all brought up this people over Jordan,” etc.
1Ch. 11:17.-“And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me
drink of the water of the well of Bethlehem, that is at the gate!” This
would come also under the figure Gonismos (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]
).
Psa. 22:1 (2).-“My God (Eli), my God (Eli), why hast thou for saken
me?” (Mat. 27:46. Mar. 15:34). See under Epizeuxis.
Psa. 57:7 (8) is also a beautiful Ecphonesis.
Psa. 84:1 (2).-“How amiable (i.e., How lovely, or How delightful) are
thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts,” etc.
Isa. 1:4.-“Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evil-
doers, children that are corrupters.”

See under Synonymia and Anabasis.
Isa. 6:5.-“Then said |, Woe is me! for | am undone”; etc. This is the
true Ecphonesis of a convicted soul. A confession, not of what he has
done, but of what he IS; as to nature, condition, and deserts. Of such
an exclamation the result is ever (as recorded in the next verse)
“THEN flew,” etc.
Eze. 9:8.-“I fell upon my face, and cried, and said, Ah Lord God
(Adonai Jehovah)!” etc.
Hos. 13:9.-°О Israel, thou hast destroyed thyself; but in me is thine
help.”
Mat. 15:28.-“Then Jesus answered and said unto her, О woman, great
is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt.”

Mat. 17:17.-“Then Jesus answered and said, О faithless and perverse
generation,” etc.

Act. 7:51 is also an Ecphonesis.

Rom. 7:24.-“O wretched man that | am! who shall deliver me from this
body of death?” (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] ). See Hypallage, Ellipsis
and Metonymy.

This is a true Ecphonesis; but, as concluding the whole of the
chapter, it is also in that respect a kind of Epiphonema (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).

This verse expresses the continuous experience of every true child
of God, who understands the conflict between the two natures:-the old
man and the new man: the flesh and the spirit, the old nature and the
Divine nature implanted within him by the Holy Spirit.

This conflict is the one thing of which a merely religious person is
destitute. It is the one thing that cannot be imitated by the hypocrite.
He never has an abiding sense of inward corruption and of the conflict
with it; because he has not the New nature by which alone it is
manifested and brought to light. He has no standard within him to
detect it, or by which to try it.

Until the truth of the abiding conflict between the two natures is
seen no spiritual peace can be enjoyed.

The fruits of the old tree are dealt with in the former portion of this
Doctrinal part of the Epistle (Rom. 1:16-32; Rom. 2:1-29; Rom. 3:1-31;
Rom. 4:1-25; Rom. 5:1-11): and then the old tree itself is dealt with in
chap. 5:12 to 8:39, and is shown to be (in God’s sight) as dead,
having been crucified with Christ. Thus, the conflict goes on till this
body of death (i.e., until this dying body). either dies, or is “changed” at
Christ's appearing.

Then the longing desire will be realised, and faith will be rewarded,
as expressed in the words that follow, where the Ellipsis must be
supplied:-“I thank God-He will deliver me-[and reckoning myself even
now as already having died with Christ (6:11)-Ι thank God, that He will
deliver me] through Jesus Christ our Lord.”
Aporia; or, Doubt
An Expression of Feeling by way of Doubt
A-p6‘-ri-a. Greek, ἁπορία, a being in doubt, or at а loss, from ἄπορος
(aporos), without a passage (a, privative, and Πόρος (poros), а
passage).

The figure is used when the speaker expresses himself as though
he were at a loss what course to pursue; or when we express a doubt
as to what we ought to think or say or do.

It was also called DIAPORESIS (Di’-a-po-ree’-sis). Greek,
διαπόρησις, from did (dia), through, and ἁπόρησις (aporeesis), a
being without passage or resource.

The Latins called it DUBITATIO, a wavering, a doubting,
uncertainty, doubt, and ADDUBITATIO, the former word with ad, fo,
denoting the beginning of the hesitation or doubting.

Hos. 6:4.-“O Ephraim, what shall | do unto thee? О Judah, what shall |
do unto thee?”

See under Erotesis.

Hos. 11:8.-“How shall | give thee up, Ephraim? how shall | deliver
