Ep ’-i-ti-mee’-sis. Greek, ἐπιτίμησις, reproof, reprimand, from ἐπιτιμάω.
(epitimao), to put a price upon, from τιµή (timee), worth or value.

It is also called EPIPLEXIS, ep’-i-pleex’-is. Greek, ἐπίπληξις,
chastisement, punishment, blame.

The figure is used, where a rebuke, reproof, or reproach is
conveyed.

Seeing that God’s ways and thoughts are the opposite of man’s, it
is impossible that God should speak to man without many rebukes
and reproaches.

These are of various kinds; and some have their own special
names, as will be seen below.

We give merely one or two by way of example, and as showing
what we may learn from them.

Luk. 9:55.-“He turned, and rebuked them (James and John), and said,
Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.” etc.

Luk. 24:25.-“Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to
believe all that the prophets have spoken.”

This was the rebuke for Jewish disciples, but Christians to-day
need it as much: for both believe and receive some Scriptures, but not
“ALL.”

The Jews received the passages which spoke of Christ's “glory,”
but rejected those that told of His “sufferings”: and Christians to-day
are guilty of the opposite folly.

The Jews thought the Lord Jesus was not good enough for the
world, and so they cast Him out. Christians, to-day, think they have not
yet made the world good enough for Christ, and so would fain keep
Him out.

Both take a part of the truth, and put it for the whole; and both,
therefore, come under this solemn rebuke.

The correction for the folly of both is given in the words which
follow, “Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, AND to enter
into his glory?” The Jews thought the former humiliating; and
Christians call the latter “carnal”: and so Jews reject the Scriptures
which testify of the sufferings, and Christians neglect the Prophecies
which speak of Christ's coming glories.

The Holy Spirit saith (2Pe. 1:19), concerning these prophecies,
‘The world is a dark place; and ye do well to take heed to the only light
in it.’ Christians, to-day, say that prophecy is a dark place, and ye do
well to avoid it!
Rom. 9:20.-“Nay but, О man, who art thou that repliest against God?
Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made
me thus?” etc. See this passage also under Apostrophe and
Prosopopesia.
Eleutheria; or, Candour
An Expression of Feeling by way of bold Freedom of Speech in
Reprehension
El-eu’-ther-i’-a. Greek, ἐλευθερία, liberty or licence. Hence,
ἐλευθέριος, (eleutherios), speaking or acting like a free man, frank.
The figure is so called, because the speaker or writer, without
intending offence, speaks with perfect freedom and boldness.
Eleutheria is therefore the bold reprehension of free speech.
