EPLCERTOMESIS, Greek, ἐπικερτόμησις (Ep-i-ker-to-mee-sis), a
sneering or jeering.

MYCTERISMOS, Greek, µυκτηρισµός (muk-teer-is-mos), a turning
up of the nose at, sneering, or snuffing, from µυκτήρ (mukteer), the
nose, snout, nostrils.

The figure is used when the speaker or writer excites laughter by a
jeer or sneer; or excites ridicule by turning up the nose.

This is exactly what the Holy Spirit says the Pharisees did at the
Lord’s teaching in Luk. 16:14, and which led Him to rebuke them, and
put them to shame and silence by a parable similar to those they were
fond of using (See Lightfoot).

It is also what Jehovah will do, in return, to those who have thus
treated His Anointed.
Psa. 2:4.-“He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall
have them in derision.”
Pro. 1:24-33.-This is a solemn example of the figure.

See also Isa. 14:4; Isa. 14:12. Mic. 2:4.
6. As to Argumentation
We now come to the last part of the third great branch of Figures
involving Change, and to the last division of these, affecting the
application of words as to Argumentation.

It is neither the smallest division, nor is it the least in importance.

The application of words is so wide that it is difficult to separate
every Figure, and say that one belongs to a certain class; because
they frequently overlap, and belong to more than one class.

For example: we have put in this last section, Argumentation,
Erotesis, or Interrogating; but interrogation is not always used by way
of argument. In like manner we have included Dialogismus; but as it
represents two or more persons speaking, it might have been classed
under the use “as to Persons.”

So that, while each figure cannot be arbitrarily arranged under the
separate heads, we have placed them in the order which seemed to
be most proper to themselves, and most instructive and helpful to the
Bible student.

Under this last division, Argumentation, we have put no less than
nineteen figures; and first, as being one of the most important,
Erotesis.
Separate works have been published on this figure alone; and it
would form the subject of years of fruitful study by itself.
Erotesis; or, Interrogating
The Asking of Questions without waiting for the Answer
Er’-6-tee’-sis. Greek, ἐρώτησις, interrogation (from ἐρωτᾶν, to ask, to
enquire, to question: also to request).

This figure is used when a speaker or writer asks animated
questions, but not to obtain information. Instead of making a plain and
direct statement, he suddenly changes his style, and puts what he
was about to say or could otherwise have said, into the form of a
question, without waiting for an answer. Instead of declaring a
conviction, or expressing indignation, or vindicating authority, he puts
it in the form of a question without expecting any reply
