Dialogismos; or, Dialogue
Dj-al-o-gis-mos. Greek, διαλογισµός, conversation, arguing, from
διαλογίζεσθαι (dialogizesthai), to converse, argue.

This figure is used when we represent one or more persons as
speaking about a thing, instead of saying it ourselves: Dialogue.

The persons speak in a manner suitable to their character or
condition.

When there are not two persons represented, but the objecting
and answering is done by the one speaker, the figure is called
LOGISMUS, and what is stated is said to be in dialogismo, or in
logismo.

Sometimes the speaker brings forward another as speaking, and
uses his words, adapting them to the object in view.

The Latins called this figure SERMOCINATIO, which means the
same thing.

Isa. 14:16-19.-“They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and
consider thee, saying,
Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake
kingdoms? etc.,
But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch,” etc.
Isa. 63:1-6.-“Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments
from Bozrah? This that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the
greatness of his strength?
| that speak in righteousness, mighty to save.
Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that
treadeth in the winefat?
| have trodden the winepress alone; and of the people there
was none with me; for | will tread them in mine anger, and
trample them in my fury; and their blood shall be sprinkled
upon my garments, and | will stain all my raiment. For the day
of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is
come.” etc.
Thus, vividly and powerfully, is the day of vengeance, and of
judgment, described. And yet there are persons who take this
passage as treating of Christ’s past work of grace on Calvary!
Mic. 2:4.-“In that day shall one take up a parable against you, and
lament with a doleful lamentation, and say, We be utterly spoiled:” etc.
(See under Polyptoton).

Zec. 8:20-23.-It shall yet come to pass that there shall come people,
and the inhabitants of many cities: And the inhabitants of one city shall
go to another, saying,

Let us go speedily to pray before the Lord, and to seek the

Lord of hosts: | will go also.

Yea, many people and strong nations shall come,” etc. See
Polyptoton.

Some think that Paul, when he says, in
1Co. 9:24, “So run, that ye may obtain,” does not directly exhort the
Corinthians himself; but by a Sermocinatio, brings forward and uses
that incitement which the trainers and spectators in the public contests
usually employed.

Other examples may be found under Antimetathesis, and in Mat.
25:37-39. Luk. 13:6-9; Luk. 15:20-32.
Dianeea; or, Animated Dialogue
Di’-a-noe’-a. Greek, διάνοια, a revolving in the mind. This Figure is
employed when the speaker uses animated questions and answers in
developing an argument.
