or phrase; whereas, in Anaphora only one word is thus repeated.
Scripture abounds with this figure, which adds great importance to

many of its solemn statements. We give a few examples:-
Deu. 28:3-6.-

“Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and

blessed shalt thou be in the field:

blessed shall be the fruit of the body,

and* [Note: See Polysyndeton.] the fruit of thy ground,

and the fruit of thy cattle,

the increase of thy kine,
and the flocks of thy sheep.
blessed shall be thy basket and thy store,
blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in,
blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out.”
See the same figure in verses 16-19 with the word “cursed”
repeated at the beginning of successive sentences.
2Sa. 23:5.-According to the Hebrew, each line begins with the word
éé (kee), For.
“For is not my house thus with God?
For He hath made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered
in all things and sure,
For this is all my salvation, and all my desire.
For shall He not make it to prosper?”
These four lines are in the form of an introversion:-
a Question.
Ь — Answer and Reason.
Ь — Answer and Reason.
a Question.
In a and a the question is concerning David's house; while in b and
b the subject is Jehovah’s covenant. See under Correspondence.
Psa. 3:1-2 (2, 3).-
“Many are they that rise up against me,
Many there be which say of my soul,” etc.
Psa. 94:3-4.-“How long” In verse 4 it should be repeated by Ellipsis
and put in italics twice. In the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] it is thus put only once; in the
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] not at all, the figure not being
seen.
Psa. 115:12-13.-
“He will bless us.
He will bless the house of Israel.
He will bless the house of Aaron.
He will bless them that fear the Lord.”
This figure stands here in immediate contrast with the figure of
Epistrophe (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) in verses 9-11, where the same
phrase ends successive clauses.

See also in the Songs of Degrees, Psa. 121:7-8; Psa. 122:6-7;
Psa. 123:2-3; Psa. 124:1-2; Psa. 3:1-8; Psa. 4:1-8; Psa. 5:1-12; Psa.
126:2; Psa. 127:1; Psa. 128:5-6; Psa. 129:1-2.

Psa. 148:1-4.-“Praise” is seven times repeated at the beginning of
successive sentences. So also in the whole of Psa. 150:1-6
Isa. 51:1; Isa. 51:4; Isa. 51:7.-Three times we have the Divine call
“Hearken unto me.”
Jer. 1:18.-“Behold, | have made thee this day a defenced city,

and an iron pillar,

and brazen walls-

against the whole land,

against the kings of Judah,

against the princes thereof,
against the priests thereof, and
against the people of the land.”

The figure, here, emphasizes the fact that the prophet in being
God’s spokesman was recognised as the “man of God,”* [Note: See
The Man of God, by the same author and publisher; price one penny.]
but also (and therefore) as necessarily “against” man. For, inasmuch
as man’s thoughts and man’s ways are always the opposite of 6ος,
he who is for God cannot help being opposed to man.

Jer. 4:23-26.-We have “I beheld” four times repeated; to enchance
the solemnity of the desolation of Jehovah’s judgments.

Jer. 5:17.-“They shall eat up” is three times repeated; to emphasize
the complete devouring of the land by the enemy.

Jer. 50:35-36.-“A sword” is four times repeated; to emphasize the
slaughter in the destruction of Babylon.

Jer. 51:20-23.-Ten times we have the words “with thee” repeated to
amplify the statement in verse 20. “Thou art my battle ax,” spoken of
Israel.

Hos. 3:4.-“For the children of Israel shall abide many days
without a king,
and without a prince,
and without a sacrifice,
and without an image,
and without an ephod,
and without teraphim.”
Here there is something more than a simple Polysyndeton (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ), as another word is joined with the conjunction.
The employment of this figure emphasizes the present desolation
of Israel.
Mic. 5:9-13.-“I will cut off’ is repeated four times; to amplify and
extend the prophecy in verse 9.
Mic. 7:11-12.-Here we have “In that day” repeated to emphasize the
time; and “from” to amplify the places whence they shall come.
Zep. 1:2-3.-1 will consume,” three times repeated, indicates the
solemnity of the threatening and the certainty of its execution.
Mat. 5:3-11.-The word “Blessed” nine times repeated.
Mat. 5:22.-
“Whosoever is angry, etc.
Whosoever shall say, etc.”
Mat. 11:7-9.-“What went ye out ... to see?”

This question is three times repeated; to emphasize and call

attention to the fact that, though they were all attracted to John, yet
they rejected him, and his ministry, and his testimony. See under
Erotesis.
Mat. 11:18-19.-This is lost in the English Version: as in the Greek the
verb “came” is put out of its natural place (by the figure of Hyperbaton,
q.v. [Note: Which see] ), and is made to commence the two
successive sentences.
It is a very remarkable Anaphora.
Rom. 8:33-35.-Here we have the three questions, each beginning with
“Who shall?” (See page 87).
The first two questions should be answered like the third.
“Who shall lay anything to the charge of God’s elect?
Shall God that justifieth?
Who is he that condemneth?
Shall Christ that died, ...?
Who shall separate us ...?
Shall tribulation? etc.”
1Co. 3:9.-This, too, is hidden in the translation. In the Greek the figure
is clearly seen.
“God’s fellow-labourers we are:
God’s husbandry,
God’s building, ye are.”

Note, that the fellow-labourers are ourselves with one another; and
not we who are fellow-labourers with God. We are not to dishonour
God by bringing Him down and making Him one of ourselves. The
popular explanation is only another instance of man’s nature, which
made him so easy a prey to Satan’s temptation-promise, “Ye shall be
as gods” (Gen. 3:5).

Herein lies the difference between the First Adam and the Last,
between the First man and the Second. The first man thought equality
with God was a thing to be grasped at: but the Second Man did not so
consider it (Php. 2:6, R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).
Equality with God was not a thing to be obtained, but a thing to be
either inherently possessed (as He possessed it as the Son of God),
or to be received as the gift of God (as He received it as the Son of
Man).
1Co. 6:11.-“And such were some of you,

but ye are washed,
but ye are sanctified,
but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the
Spirit of our God.”
1Co. 6:12.
“All things [or rather meats] are lawful unto me, but
All things [to еай are not expedient:
All things [or meats] are lawful for me [fo eaf], but | will not be
brought under the power of any.”
Here the figure is combined with another called Mesarchia (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).
1Co. 11:3.-“But | would have you know that
the head of every man is Christ: and
the head of the woman is the man: and
the head of Christ is God.”
We have here Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), as well as
an irregular Climax (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
1Co. 12:8-11.-We have the repetition of the words, “to another.” In
the Greek the word is not exactly the same in each case. It is ἄλλος
(allos), another (of the same kind), six times, and ἑτέρος (heteros),
another (of a different kind), twice, in connection with “faith” and
“kinds of tongues.”* [Note: It is probable that Heteros marks a new
class; while Allos refers to subdivisions of the same class.]

“To one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom,

to another (allos) the word of knowledge by the same Spirit.

To another (heteros) faith by the same Spirit;

to another (al/os) the gifts of healing by the same Spirit.
To another (a//os) the working of miracles;

to another (allos) prophecy;

to another (al/os) discerning of spirits;

to another (heteros) divers kinds of tongues;

to another (al/os) the interpretation of tongues:
but all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to
every man severally AS HE WILL,” and not as we may will or “claim.”
1Co. 13:4.-In the first three verses we have the figure of Polysyndeton
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ), or “many ands.” In verses 4-7, we have a
combination of two figures:-Asyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), or
“no-ands”; and Anaphora in the repetition of the word “Charity” (verse
4).

In verse 7, the Greek order of the words is: Charity

“all things beareth,

all things believeth,

all things hopeth,
all things endureth.’
In verse 8:
“Whether there be prophecies, they shall fail;
whether there be tongues, they shall cease;
whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away.”
In verse 9:
“In part we know, and
in part we prophesy.”
In verse 11. “When | was a child,
as a child | spake,
as a child | understood,
as a child | thought.”
2Co. 11:26.-Here we have the repetition of “in perils” eight times.
2Co. 7:11.-We have the repetition of the word “yea” to increase the
effects and results of true godly sorrow for sin in seven particulars.
Referring to six different aspects of their sorrow as manifested in three
different directions.

The word rendered “yea” really means but; and it may be
preserved by supplying the Ellipsis:-what carefulness (or rather
earnestness) it wrought in you, but not earnestness merely-that is
saying too little-

in respect of themselves.

but self-defence,

but indignation,

in respect of Paul.

but fear,

but vehement desire,

in respect of him who had done the wrong.
but zeal,

but revenge,
The first “but” combines the additional figure of Epitasis (q.v.
[Note: Which see] ), which is here an emphatic addition to a
statement or argument of six particulars.

Eph. 6:12.-“For we wrestle not
against flesh and blood, but
against principalities,
against powers,
against the rulers of the darkness of this world,
against spiritual wickedness in high places.”

This is to emphasize the fact that our conflict is spiritual, and that
Satan’s sphere of operations is not immorality or crime, but religion.
See all the references to him in Scripture, and note how opposed they
are to popular Satan-myth of the world and of Christendom.

Php. 3:2.-Note the repetition of the word “beware.”
Php. 4:2.-Ί beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche.”
Php. 4:8.-We have here the repetition of the word “whatsoever
things’ with which the figure of Asyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) is
combined, in order to emphasize the important conclusion “Think on
these things:” and these things, in eight nouns are arranged in the
figure of Chiasmus (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ).
1Jn. 1:1-3.-

“That which was from the beginning,

which we have heard,

which we have seen with our eyes,

which we have looked upon ...

That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you.”

This five-fold repetition of the pronoun 6 (ho), which, emphasizes

with great solemnity the subject of the epistle which is opened thus in
so stately a manner.
Jam. 5:7-8.-Three times we have “Be patient” with reference to the
coming of the Lord.
Jam. 5:13-14.-Twice we have the question “Is any?”

“Is any among you afflicted?
Let him pray.

Is any merry?

Let him sing psalms.

Is any sick among you?
Let him call,” etc.
Here are contrasted prayer and praise; and praying with singing.
Teaching us that prayer is not to be sung.* [Note: See Intoned Prayers
and Musical Services, by the same author and publisher.]
1Jn. 3:5; 1Jn. 3:8.-“He was manifested to take away our sins; ... the
Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the
devil.”

Here the two great purposes of Christ's manifestation are
declared: the one present, and the other future; the one in grace now,
and the other in power hereafter; the one in sufferings, and the other
in glory.

Other examples of Anaphora may be seen in Gal. 1:8-9. Rev. 7:5-8
(with Epistrophe), and elsewhere: for these examples are given only
as specimens.

Epanalepsis; or, Resumption
The repetition of the same word after a break, or parenthesis
