The Latins called it CONCESSIO, concession, while the Greeks
had another name for it, EPICHORESIS (Ep~-i-ché-ree~-sis), an
agreement upon a point.
Jer. 12:1.-“Righteous art thou, О Lord, when | plead with thee: yet let
me talk (marg. [Note: arg. Margin.] reason the case) with thee of thy
judgments: Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper? wherefore
are all they happy that deal very treacherously?”

Hab. 1:13.-“Thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil, and canst not
look on iniquity; wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal
treacherously, and holdest thy tongue when the wicked devoureth the
man that is more righteous than he?” etc.

Rom. 2:17-20.-All these claims of the Jew are admitted for the sake of
argument, in order to emphasize the weighty reproof in verse 21,
“Thou therefore, which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself?”
etc., to the end of verse 23.

1Co. 4:8.-He concedes the point as to their desire to reign, but
ironically adds, “I would to God ye did reign, that we also might reign
with you.”

2Co. 10:1.-He concedes the point that he was base among them: but
verses 2 and 11 show that he does so only to gain another point. So in
12:16.

Gal. 4:15.-The apostle grants the fact, which was indisputable, as to
the great friendship and love that existed between himself and the
Galatian saints; in order to gain another point, and add to his
argument, when he asks in the next verse, “Am | therefore become
your enemy because | tell you the truth?”
Jam. 2:19.-“Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well: the
devils also believe, and tremble.”
Epitrope; or, Admission

Admission of Wrong in order to gain what is Right
E-pit’-ro-pee. Greek, ἐπιτροπή, reference, arbitration, from ἐπιτρέπειν,
to turn over, surrender, (from ἐτή (epi), upon, and τρέπειν (trepein), to
turn).

The Figure is used when we surrender a point which we feel to be
wrong, but we admit it for the sake of argument. In Synchoresis (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ), we concede what is right in itself; but, in
Epitrope, we admit what is wrong, giving way to the feelings or
unreasonableness of another, in order that we may more effectually
