carry our point.

The Latins called it PERMISSIO, a giving up, unconditional
surrender.

The figure sometimes approaches to /rony (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]
); when “what is admitted” is not really granted, but only apparently so
for argument’s sake.
1К!. 22:15.-“Со, and prosper: for the Lord shall deliver it into the hand
of the king.” Micaiah (by Epitrope and Irony) admitted what was in
Jehoshaphat’s heart, and thus exposed and condemned it.
Ecc. 11:9.-“Rejoice, О young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart
cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine
heart, and in the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these
things God will bring thee into judgment.”
Jer. 2:28.-“But where are thy gods that thou hast made thee?” Here,
the admission as to these gods is made; but only for the sake of
exposing, by /гопу, the fact that they were no gods. So Jer. 7:21, and
Eze. 20:39.
Amo. 4:4-5.-See under /гопу.
Mat. 23:32.-‘Fill ye up then the measure of your fathers.” Christ was
not inciting to murders and martyrdoms; but, using the figure Epitrope,
He granted their position, and ironically told them to act accordingly.
Joh. 13:27.-“That thou doest, do quickly.” The Lord is not sanctioning
the evil, but permitting it.

Rom. 11:19-20.-“Thou (Gentile, verse 13) wilt say then, The branches
were broken off, that | might be grafted in. Well; because of unbelief
they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not highminded,
but fear.”
Here, it is not Synchoresis, i.e., a concession of what is right, but
an admission of what is wrong, for the sake of argument. Indeed, it is
a mixture of the two, for there are two propositions. “The branches
were broken off’: i.e., the Jews were cast off for a time (though not
cast away, verse 1), that is true. That point is conceded; but “that |
might be grafted in’? No! that was not the object: that is what you
Gentiles will say, “Thou wilt say.” It is not what the Holy Spirit says.
That was not the cause why the Jews were broken off. It was
“because of unbelief”! That was the true reason!

Paromologia; or, Confession
A Concession in Argument to gain Favour
Par-o-mo-log’-i-a. Greek, παροµολογία, confession, from παρά (para),
by, or near, and ὁμολογεῖν (homologein), to confess.

This Figure is used when we acknowledge some fault or wrong

with a view to gain favour. Hence the Latins called it CONFESSIO,
