It is a beautiful figure, very expressive; and at once attracts our

attention to the importance of a passage.
Hos. 2:21.-“And it shall come to pass in that day, | will hear. saith the
Lord, | will hear
the heavens, and
they shall hear
the earth; and
the earth shall hear
the corn, and the wine, and the oil, and
they shall hear Jezreel.”

Thus does the Spirit emphasize the blessing wherewith Jehovah
will bless His People-when they shall obtain mercy, and He will betroth
them unto Himself for ever.

Jezreel (i.e., Israel, by the figure of Metonymy, q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ) shall cry out for and expect the corn and wine and oil; and
these, by the beautiful figure of Prosopopoeia (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]
), are represented as hearing, and in their turn, crying out to the Earth
to bring them forth: the Earth, in its turn, is represented as hearing
them, and crying out to the heavens to send rain and heat and light
and air; and these in their turn hear, and cry out to Jehovah, the giver
of all, who in judgment had made the heaven as brass, the earth as
iron, and the rain as powder and dust (Deu. 28:23-24), but who in that
day will first give repentance to Israel, and then their cry reaches to
Jehovah, who will open the heavens, and give rain, and the Earth
shall bring forth her fruit (Jer. 14:22).

Thus the figures Epizeuxis (“I will hear”), Polysyndeton, Climax,
and Prosopopoeia are heaped together to express the coming fulness
of Israel's blessing.

Joe. 1:3-4.-Τηθ prophecy of Joel opens with the solemnity which this
figure always gives. “Tell ye
your children of it, and let
your children tell
their children, and
their children another generation.
That which the palmerworm hath left hath
the locust eaten; and that which
the locust hath left hath
the cankerworm eaten; and that which
the cankerworm hath left hath
the caterpiller eaten.”
Joh. 1:1-2.-“In the beginning was
the Word: and
the Word was with
God: and
God
the Word was, and
the same [word] was in the beginning with God.”

The order of the words as thus placed in the Greek exhibits, by the
figure of Climax, a great solemnity in the measured rising of the
sense, and emphasizes the fact that “the word was God,” for the use
of the article in the third proposition preserves the actual sense from
being mistaken or hidden by the Climax, which is obtained by the
inversion of the words from their natural order.

Thus, beautifully is the true Deity of the Lord Jesus affirmed.

His attributes and their effect are similarly marked in verses 4 and
5-

Joh. 1:4-5.-“In Him was
life; and the
life was the
light of men. And the
light shineth in
darkness; and the
darkness comprehended it not.”
Rom. 5:3-5.-“And not only so, but we glory also* [Note: See “Also”: a
Biblical Study, by the same author and publisher.] in
tribulations: knowing that
tribulation worketh
patience; and
patience [worketh]
experience; and
experience worketh
hope; and
hope maketh not ashamed.”
Rom. 8:29-30.-“For whom he did foreknow, he did
predestinate also to be conformed to the image of his Son,
that he might be the firstborn among many brethren.
Moreover, whom He did

predestinate, them he

called also; and whom he

called, them He
justified also; but whom he
justified, them he glorified also.”

Rom. 10:14-15.-“Whosoever shall

call upon the name of Lord shall be saved. How then shall
they

call on him in whom they have not

believed? and how shall they

believe in him of whom they have not
heard? And how shall they
hear without a
preacher? And how shall they
preach, except they may be sent.”
Jam. 1:3-4.-“Knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh
patience. But let
patience have her
perfect work, that ye may be
perfect and entire, wanting nothing.”
Jam. 1:14-15.-“But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of
his own
lust, and enticed. Then when
lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth
sin: and
sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death.”
2Pe. 1:5-7.-“We have already considered this verse under the figure
of Polysyndeton, which is almost inseparable from the figure of
Climax. It is there very differently exhibited, however, to show that
figure.
We need not further explain the passage here, but merely exhibit it
to show the sevenfold Climax.
“Add to your faith
virtue: and to
virtue
knowledge: and to
knowledge
temperance: and to
temperance
patience: and to
patience
godliness
brotherly kindness: and to
brotherly kindness, charity.

Mesarchia; or, Beginning and Middle Repetition
The Repetition of the same Word or Words at the beginning and
middle of successive Sentences
Mes-ar’-chi-a’, from the Greek µέσος (mesos), middle, and ἀρχή
(archee), beginning, because the same word or words are repeated at

the beginning and middle of successive sentences.

It differs little from Anaphora, where the sentences are
independent.

It resembles also Epizeuxis, when the repetition comes very close
together.
Num. 9:20.-“According to the commandment of the Lord they
