godliness
brotherly kindness: and to
brotherly kindness, charity.

Mesarchia; or, Beginning and Middle Repetition
The Repetition of the same Word or Words at the beginning and
middle of successive Sentences
Mes-ar’-chi-a’, from the Greek µέσος (mesos), middle, and ἀρχή
(archee), beginning, because the same word or words are repeated at

the beginning and middle of successive sentences.

It differs little from Anaphora, where the sentences are
independent.

It resembles also Epizeuxis, when the repetition comes very close
together.
Num. 9:20.-“According to the commandment of the Lord they
abode in their tents, and according to the commandment of the
Lord they journeyed.”

Here, the repetition is at the beginning and the middle of the
passage.
Ecc. 1:2.-“Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities,
all is vanity.”

This may be regarded also as combined with Epanadiplosis (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).

Jer. 22:10.-“Weep ye not for the dead, ... but weep sore for him that
goeth away.” (See also Polyptoton).

Eze. 37:25.-“And they shall dwell in the land that | have given unto
Jacob my servant, wherein your fathers have dwelt, and they Shall
dwell therein, even they and their children and their children’s children
for ever.”

Zep. 1:15-16.-“That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and
distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and
gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, a day of the trumpet
and alarm,” etc.

This is the figure of Mesarchia, for it occurs in the beginning and
middle of the first sentence. Afterwards it becomes the figure of
Mesodiplosis, inasmuch as the word “day” occurs in the middle of
successive sentences, the first part of which consists of the repetition
of the Ellipsis: “That day is ...”
Mat. 10:40-41.-Here the verb “receive” is repeated several times at
the beginning and middle of several sentences.
Mesodiplosis; or, Middle Repetition
The Repetition of the same Word or Words in the middle of
successive Sentences
Mes-o-dip-lo‘sis, from the Greek µέσος (mesos), middle, and
ὅππλωσις (αἱριφσίς), a doubling. The doubling or repetition of a word
or words in the middle of successive sentences.

Sometimes called MESOPHONIA (Mes-o-Pho -ni-a), from µέσος
(mesos), middle, and φωνή (phqbnee), a sound, tone, speech, or
voice.
2Co. 4:8-9.-

“We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed;
We are perplexed, but not in despair:
