1. Protozeugma: or, Ante-Yoke

Pro’-to-zeug’-ma, from πρώτον (pré™-ton), the first, or the beginning,
and Zeugma: meaning yoked at the beginning; because the verb,
which is thus unequally yoked, is placed at the beginning of the
sentence. Hence, it was called also ANTEZEUGMENON, i.e., yoked
before (from the Latin, ante, before), or ante-yoked. Another name
was PROEPIZEUXIS (prod-ep-i-zeux’-is), yoked upon before (from
πτρό (pro), before, and ἐπί (epi), upon).

The Latins called it INJUNCTUM, i.e., joined, or yoked to, from in,
and jugum, a yoke (from jungo, to join).

Gen. 4:20.-“And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell
in tents and cattle.”

Here the verb “dwell” is placed before “tents” and “cattle,” with both
of which it is yoked, though it is accurately appropriate only to “tents,”
and not to “cattle.” The verb “possess” would be more suitable for
cattle. And this is why the figure is a kind of Ellipsis, for the verse if
completed would read, “he was the father of such as dwell in tents[and
possess] cattle.” But how stilted and tame compared with the figure
which bids us throw the emphasis on the fact that he was a nomade
(vO, 8 wanderer or nomade), and cared more for wandering about
than for the shepherd part of his life!

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] has supplied the verb in italics:-“[such as have]
cattle,” as though it were a case of ordinary Ellipsis. The R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] supplies the second verb “have.”
It may be, however, that the sense is better completed by taking
the words η η ОЧрд (vahaley michneh), tents of cattle, as in
2Ch. 14:14, /е., cattle-tents, i.e., herdsmen. Or, as in Gen. 46:32;
Gen. 46:34, by supplying the Ellipsis:-“Such as dwell in tents and [men
ой cattle,” {.6., herdsmen. So that the sense would be much the same.
Exo. 3:16.-“I have surely visited you, and that which is done to you in
Egypt.” We are thus reminded that it was not merely that Jehovah had
seen that which they had suffered, but rather had visited because of
His covenant with their fathers.

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
both supply the second verb: “[seen] that which is done to you, etc.”

It may be that the verb cour (pachad), though used only once,
should be repeated (by implication) in another sense, which it has,
viz.: “| have surely visited (i.e., looked after or cared for) you, and
[visited] (i.e., punished for) that which is done to you in Egypt).” The
two senses being to go {ο with the view of helping; and to go for or
against with the view of punishing, which would be the figure of
Syllepsis (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).
Deu. 4:12.-“And the Lord spake unto you out of the midst of the fire:
ye heard the voice of words, but saw no similitude, only a voice.”

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] supply the
second verb “[heard] only a voice.” The figure shows us that all the
emphasis is to be placed on the fact that no similitude was seen; thus
idolatry was specially condemned.

The word “idol” means, literally, something that is seen, and thus
all worship that involves the use of sight, and indeed, of any of the
senses (hence called sensuous worship), rather than the heart,
partakes of the nature of idolatry, and is abomination in the sight of
God.
2Ki. 11:12.-“And he brought forth the king’s son, and put the crown
upon him, and the testimony.” (2Ch. 23:11).

Here the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
supply the second verb, “gave him the testimony.” If it were a simple
Ellipsis, we might instead supply in his hand after the word
“testimony.” But it is rather the figure of Zeugma, by which our
attention is called to the importance of the “testimony” under such
circumstances (see Deu. 17:19) rather than to the mere act of the
giving it.

Isa. 2:3.-“Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to
the house of the God of Jacob,” i.e., [and let us enter into] the house
of the God of Jacob.

Luk. 24:27.-“And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he
expounded unto them in all the Scriptures the things concerning
himself.”

Here the verb “beginning” suits, of course, only “Moses”; and some
such verb as going through would be more appropriate; as he could
not begin at all the “prophets.”

This figure tells us that it is not the act which we are to think of, but
the books and the Scripture that we are to emphasize as being the
subject of the Risen Lord’s exposition.
1Co. 3:2.-“l have fed you with milk, and not with meat.”
Here the verb is ποτζω, to give drink, and it suits the subject,
“milk,” but not “meat.” Hence the emphasis is not so much on the
feeding as on the food, and on the contrast between the “milk” and the
“meat.” The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] avoids the figure by giving the verb a neutral
meaning. See how tame the passage would have been had it read: “I
have given you milk to drink and not meat to eat”! All the fire and force
and emphasis would have been lost, and we might have mistakenly
put the emphasis on the verbs instead of on the subjects: while the
figure would have been a Pleonasm (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) instead
of a Zeugma.
1Со. 7:10.- “And unto the married | command, yet not I, but the Lord.”

Here the one verb is connected with the two objects: but we are,
by this figure, shown that it is connected affirmatively with the Lord,
and only negatively with the apostle.
1Co. 14:34.- ο: it is not permitted them to speak; but to be under
authority.”

This has been treated as a simple Ellipsis: but the unequal yoke
(Zeugma) is seen, the one verb being used for the two opposite
things; thus emphasizing the fact that it is not so much the permitting,
or the commanding, which is important, but the act of speaking, and
the condition of being under authority.
1Ti. 4:3.-“Forbidding to marry and to abstain from meats.”

This has been classed already under Ellipsis; but the Zeugma is
also seen; emphasizing the fact that it is celibacy and abstinence
which are to be noted as the marks of the latter times rather than the
mere acts of “forbidding” or commanding. The latter verb, which is
omitted, is supplied by Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which see] ),
“forbidding (κωλυόντων, kéluontén), to marry, and [commanding
(κελευόντων, keleuontén)], etc.”

2. Mesozeugma; or, Middle-Yoke
Mes’-o-zeug-ma, i.e., middle-yoke, from µέσος (mesos), middle. The
Zeugma is so-called when the verb or adjective occurs in the middle of
the sentence.

The Latins called it CONJUNCTUM, joined-together-with.

Mar. 13:26.-“Then shall they see the Son of Man coming in the clouds
with great power and glory.”

Here in the Greek the adjective is put between the two nouns,
thus: “Power, great, and glory,” and it applies to both in a peculiar
manner. This Zeugma calls our attention to the fact that the power will
be great and the glory will be great: and this more effectually
emphasizes the greatness of both, than if it had been stated in so
many words.

So also 5:40, “The father of the child and the mother”; (verse 42)
“Arose the damsel and walked.”

Luk. 1:64.-“And his mouth was opened immediately and his tongue,
and he spake and praised God.”

Here it is not the act of the opening and loosing that we are to
think of, but the fact that through this predicted miracle he praised God
with his mouth and his tongue in spite of all the months of his enforced
silence.

3. Hypozeugma; or, End-Yoke
Hy’-po-zeug ‘ma, i.e., end-yoke, from Отто (hupo or hypo), underneath.
Hence ὑποζεύγνυμι (hypozeugnumi), to yoke under. The figure of
Zeugma is so called when the verb is at the end of the sentence, and
so underneath, the two objects.
Act. 4:27-28.-“They were gathered together, to do whatsoever thy
hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.”
Here the verb “determined” relates only to “counsel” and not to
“hand”: and shows us that we are to place the emphasis on the fact
that, though the power of God’s hand was felt sooner than His counsel
(as Bengel puts it), yet even this was only in consequence of His own
determinate counsel and foreknowledge. Compare chap. 2:23, and
3:18.

4. Synezeugmenon; or, Joint-Yoke
Syn’-e-zeug’-men-on, i.e., yoked together with, or yoked connectedly,
from σύν (sun or syn), together with, and ζεύγνυμµι, to yoke.

This name is given to the Zeugma when the verb is joined to more
than two clauses, each of which would require its own proper verb in
order to complete the sense.* [Note: On the other hand, when in a
succession of clauses each subject has its own proper verb,
expressed instead of being understood, then it is called HYPOZEUXIS
(Hy’-po-zeux’-is), i.e., sub-connection with. See Psa. 145:5-7. 1Co.
13:8. Where several members, which at first form one sentence, are
unyoked and separated into two or more clauses, the figure is called
DIEZEUGMENON, Di’-e-zeug’-men-on, i.e., yoked-through, from 222
(dia), through. This was called by the Latins DISJUNCTIO. See under
Prosapodosis.] By the Latins it was called ADJUNCTUM, i.e., joined
together.
Exo. 20:18.-“And all the people saw the thunderings, and the
lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking.”
How tame this would be if the proper verbs had been expressed in
each case! The verb “saw” is appropriate to the “lightnings” and
“mountain.” And by the omission of the second verb “heard” we are
informed that the people were impressed by what they saw, rather
than by what they heard.
Psa. 15:1-5 -Here the whole of the objects in verses 2-5 are
connected with one verb which occurs in the last verse (repeated from
first verse). All the sentences in verses 2-5 are incomplete. There is
the Ellipsis of the verb, e.g., verse 2: “He that walketh uprightly [shall
abide in thy tabernacle and shall never be moved], he that worketh
righteousness [shall never be moved],” etc.
This gives rise to, or is the consequence of the structure of the
Psalm:-
Α 1. Who shall abide? (stability).
qualities.
В а 2. Positive
Ь 3. Negative
В а 4-Positive
Ь — -4-5- Negative
Α -5. Who shall abide? (stability).

Eph. 4:31.-“Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and
evil speaking, be put away from you.”

Here the one verb “put away,” αἴρω (air6), is used of all these
various subjects, though it does not apply equally to each: e.g.,
“bitterness,” πικρία (pikria), the opposite of “kindness,” verse 32;
“wrath,” θυμός (thumos), harshness, the opposite of “tender-hearted,”
verse 32; “anger,” ὀργή (orgee), the opposite of “forgiving,” verse 32;
“clamour,” κραυγή (kraugee), “evil-speaking,” βλασφημία
(blasphemia), “malice,” κακία (kakia), wickedness.

It is the thing we are not to be, that is important, rather than the act
of giving it up. (See the same passage under Polysyndeton).

Php. 3:10.-“That | may know him, and the power of his resurrection,
and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his
death.”
Here the one verb “know” properly refers to “Him.” The verbs
suited to the other subjects are not expressed, in order that we may
not be diverted by other action from the one great fact of our
knowledge of Him. “That | may know Him (is the one great object, but
to know Him | must experience) the power of His resurrection, and (to
feel this | must first share) the fellowship of His sufferings (How? by)
being made like Him in His death,” i.e., by reckoning myself as having
died with Christ (Rom. 6:11), and been planted together in the likeness
of His death (verse 5). So only can | know the power of that new
resurrection life which | have as “risen with Christ,” enabling me to
“walk in newness of life,” and thus to “know Him.”

The order of thought is introverted in verses 10 and 11.

Resurrection.
Suffering.
Death.

Resurrection.

And resurrection, though mentioned first, cannot be known until
fellowship with His sufferings and conformity to His death have been
experienced by faith. Then the power of His resurrection which it
exercises on the new life can be known; and we can know Him only in
what God has made Christ to be to His people, and what He has
made His people to be in Christ.