Eze. 36:23-29.-Here the words “you” and “your” are very frequently
thus repeated, giving great emphasis to the whole of this precious
promise for Israel in the latter day. The use of this figure strongly
forbids the interpretation of this passage to any but Israel (verses 22,
32).

Joh. 14:1-4.-The repetition of the pronouns “I” and “you” emphasizes
the fact that nothing is to come between the Lord and the hearts of His
people, so that His promised return may be the object ever before
them.

Joh. 16:12-15.-Here, the verbs “shall” and “will” are repeated eleven
times in these four verses, in order to impress us with the importance
of the promise and the absolute certainty of its performance.

“| have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them
now. Howbeit, when He, the Spirit of truth, is (shall have) come, He
will guide you into all truth (“all the truth,” R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] ): for He shall not speak of ({6., from) Himself; but
whatsoever He shall hear, that shall He speak: and He will show you
things to come. He shall glorify me: for He shall receive of mine, and
shall show it unto you. All things that the Father hath are mine:
therefore said I, that He shall take of mine, and shall show it unto
you.”
Thus is emphasized the solemn promise of the Lord Jesus that the
Holy Spirit should give a further revelation of Truth, which could not be
made known at that time. We have it in the seven Epistles addressed
to churches by the Holy Spirit, through Paul.* [Note: See Things to
Come for 1898 and 1899.] That great promise cannot find its
fulfillment subjectively or individually, giving “truths” to different
persons, so different (not to say opposite) that fierce controversies
rage concerning them. It cannot have been fulfilled in the inspiration of
any one church. It can have been fulfilled only by the provision of
those text-books of Christian doctrine, which we have in the “Pauline”
Epistles addressed to churches, beginning with Romans and ending
with Thessalonians. Here, we have “all the truth” into which the Spirit
was to guide. Truth which glorifies Christ and instructs the Christian as
to his standing before God and his walk with God. No other part of
God’s Word contains such a body of Christian Theology. Every
Scripture is written for us, “for our learning”; but these are written
specially about the Church of God.

Gal. 4:9.-“How turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements
whereunto ye desire again to be in bondage.”

By this repetition we are pointed to the key to this whole passage,
as well as to the explanation of an obscure word and a difficult
expression. All turns on the meaning of the word, which is rendered
“elements” (oTolxgia, stoicheia). “The elements of the world” (verse 3),
and “weak and beggarly elements” (verse 10). The word “again,” twice
used, connects these two together, and emphasizes them.

Verse 3 reads:-

“Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the
στοικεῖα τοῦ κόσμου”. (stoicheia tou kosmou): i.e., the stoicheia
pertaining to the world.

It is clear what the cosmos is, for it is the world with reference to its
creation, and embraces the whole world. But what are the stoicheia?
The answer is given in verse 8, “When ye knew not God ye did service
(or ‘were in bondage,’ the same word as in verses 3 and 10) unto
them which by nature are no gods.” The stoicheia were the rites and
ceremonies of heathen idolatry.

In Greece to-day every mountain, tree, and grove and fountain has
its stoicheion or god, who has to be appeased and propitiated.
These Galatians had been such idolators (verse 8), but they had
abandoned these rites and ceremonies for Christianity, and yet
wanted to bring in the stoicheia, or the rites and ceremonies of
Judaism into the Church.

The same term is thus applied both to Paganism and Judaism,
and from the stand-point of being “all one in Christ Jesus” (3:28).

The Jewish rites of circumcision, purification, and the observance
of “days and months and times and years,” etc., are put upon the
same level as the worship and propitiation of spirits in trees and
mountains, etc. And the Holy Spirit asks by the apostle, “When ye
knew not God ye were in bondage unto them which by nature are no
gods. But now having known God ... how turn ye again unto the weak
and beggarly stoicheia whereto ye desire again to be in bondage? Ye
observe days and months and times and years. | am afraid of you, lest
| have bestowed upon you labour in vain” (Gal. 4:8-11. Compare Col.
2:16-18).

Hence, stoicheiolatry consists of introducing that which belongs to
the world (κόσμος, cosmos) into Christian worship and practice.
Romanism has given the stfoicheia of paganism and Judaism a very
large place in its creeds and ritual; While the Protestant Churches
show that they have not wholly purged themselves from them when
they adopt worldly methods and adapt Jewish rites and ceremonies to
Christian faith and practice.
1Th. 5:1-2; 1Th. 5:4-5.-The repetition of the pronoun “you” and “ye” in
these verses stands in marked contrast to the repetition of the
pronouns “they” and “them” in verse 3, thus pointing out to us the
significant lesson that those who are “waiting for God’s Son from
Heaven” are not concerned with “times and seasons” which have to
do with “the day of the Lord,” and His coming as “a thief’ on the
ungodly. The day of the Lord is His coming with His saints unto the
world. But, before this can happen, He will have come forth into the air
to receive them to Himself (1Th. 4:1-18.) Therefore, though “times and
seasons” have to do with “the day of the Lord,” they have nothing to
do with those who look for “the day of Christ.”
2Ti. 3:14-15.-“But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned
and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them:
and that from a child thou hast known the holy Scriptures, which are
able to make thee wise unto salvation.”

This is in harmony with the whole of this second epistle to Timothy,
which is thus marked as being so different from the first epistle.

In the first epistle we see the Church in its rule; and in the second,
we see it in its ruin. In the first, Timothy is instructed as to how he is to
conduct himself in the Church in its corporate capacity; whom he is to
appoint to its various offices; and what are to be their qualifications,
etc., etc.

But when we pass to the second epistle we find all changed. The
corporate position and testimony of the Church is gone, and all now is
individual-intensely individual, as may be seen all through. In the four
chapters we have the four stages of the “Down-grade movement.”

In 1:15 all turn away from Paul’s teaching: but “I am not ashamed:
for | know whom | have believed” (verse 12): “Be not thou ashamed”
(verse 8), “I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee”
(verse 5).

In chap. 2:18, 19, others err “concerning the truth. Nevertheless,
the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, the Lord
knoweth them that are his. And let everyone that nameth the name of
Christ depart from iniquity.”
In chap. 3:8 there are those who “resist the truth,” but the only
hope is for the individual believer to cling fast to the God-breathed
word, and to use this sword of the Spirit.

In chap. 4:4 there are and shall be those who turn away their ears
from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables.” The immediate
injunction follows: “but watch thou in all things ... make full proof of
thy ministry, etc.”

All this is emphasized and forced upon our notice by the repetition
of the pronouns in this epistle.

Rev. 8:7-12.-Eleven times are the words, the “third part” repeated (τὸ
τρίτον, Ю triton).