Ant’-an-a-cla‘-sis, from ἀντί (anti), against or back, avd (ana), up, and
κλάσις (klasis), a breaking from κλάω (klaqb), to break. Hence, a
breaking up against. This name is given to this figure; because, when
a word has been used once in a sentence in its plain and natural
sense, it is used again in the same sentence in another sense which
breaks up against it. It is the use of the same word in the same
sentence in two different senses. It is essential to this figure that the
two words must be the same in spelling.* [Note: This differs from a
Homonym (see Appendix D), which is a different word though spelt in
the same way.] When they are similar in spelling but alike in sound,
the figure is known by another name, Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which
see] ).

It is in frequent use in all languages: e.g., “while we live, let us
live”: or “learn some craft while you are young that when you are old
you may live without craft.”

When the Declaration of American Independence was being
signed, Hancock said, “We must be unanimous; there must be no
pulling different ways.” “Yes,” said Franklin, “we must all hang
together, or most assuredly we shall all hang separately.”

A correspondent recently wrote concerning a certain subject: “The
more | think of it the less | think of it,” where the meaning is obvious.
With this figure we combine in our references the figure of
Ploce: or, Word-Folding
pronounced plo-kee. Greek πλοκή (plokee), a fold or plait, from
πλέκω (plekqp), to twine, twist, weave, or braid.

As in Antanaclasis, the same word is repeated in a different sense.
Only with Ploce that sense implies more than the first use of it. It often
expresses a property or attribute of it. “His wife is a wife indeed.” In
that great victory “C@sar was C@sar.” Lord Chatham says, speaking of
Oliver Cromwell, “He astonished mankind by his intelligence, yet did
not derive it from spies in the cabinet of every prince in Europe; he
drew it from the cabinet of his own sagacious mind. He observed
facts, and traced them forward to their consequences.”

In our examples from Scripture, we will not give two separate lists
of these figures, as it is often very difficult to classify them. In many of
the examples the reader will have, however, little difficulty in
distinguishing them. Other names are also used for this figure, either
