Jdg. 11:40.-“The daughters of Israel went from days to days to talk
with the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.”

Here, “days” is first used by Syncedoche for a year (i.e., year to
year), and afterwards literally for days of twenty-four hours (“four
days”). See under Synecdoche.

Jdg. 15:16.-The word cilf (hamar) means not only an ass, but a
mass (or heaps as the word is rendered) to imply that the Philistines
were to be no more regarded than asses:-

“With the jaw-bone of ап ass (hamopr),

A mass (Παπιφ/), yea, masses;* [Note: According to another
pointing of the same consonants (as exhibited in the Ixx.),
this line would read, “I have utterly destroyed them.” In this
case the Figure would be (not Antanaclasis) but Polyptoton
(q.v.): viz., Ixx., €iU@ebetis ἐϊὼδεόῦ exaleiphon exeeleipsa),
or Hebrew, ailr airuéi (cham ' г chamarteem). Thus
preserving the correspondence between the second and
fourth lines.]
With the jaw-bone of an ass,
| slew a thousand men.”
1Sa. 1:24.-“And the child was young.” Hebrew: And the child (anf,
naar) was a child (anf, naar). In English idiom we should put the
emphasis on “was.”

In the former case the word is used of the child Samuel; and in the
latter case, a child of tender age, (by the figure Synechdoche, q.v.
[Note: Which зее.] ‚ the word “child” is Used to denote the kind).

Psa. 141:5.-“It shall be an excellent oil (oil of the head) (fru, ‘rosh):
let not my head δό, roshee) reject it.

The first time it means the head, or head of hair; and the second
time it is put by Synecdoche (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) for the whole
body or person, i.e., let me not refuse it.

Isa. 37:18.-“Of a truth, Lord, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all
the nations (afrolu, ha-aratzoth, lands) and their countries (Ti,
artzam, land).” Here, the repeated word is Πὅ, land.
As the Text now stands, the word /ands is put by Metonomy (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]) for the inhabitants (but according to an alternative
reading in some MSS. it is actually nations, as it is the parallel
passage 2Ki. 19:17); and in the second, for their country which they
inhabited. Hence, the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current
Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has translated the figure by giving
two different renderings, (“nations” and “countries”) of the one
repeated word “land.”

Isa. 58:10.-“If thou draw out thy soul to the hungry and satisfy the
afflicted soul.”

Here, the word “soul” is first put (by Metonymy) for the feelings of
kindness, liberality, and charity; and then (by Synecdoche) for the
person himself who is in trouble.

Isa. 66:3-4.-Here, the words of Jehovah are emphasized and
solemnised by the structure of the passage which exhibits Epanodos
or Chiasmos (q.v. [Νοίε: Which 5εε.] ); and the words when repeated
are used in another sense, the first time of the natural acts of men,
and the second by Anthropopatheia (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), of God.

а Their soul delighteth in their abominations.

Ь | also will choose their delusions and will bring their fears
upon them:
c Because when | called, none did answer:
с When | spake, they did not hear;
Ь — Ви! they did evil before mine eyes, and chose that
а In which | delighted not.
Here, in “a” and “a,” we have delighting: in “b” and “b,” the
choosing: while, in “c” and “c,” we have the reason given for each.
Jer. 7:18-19.-“That they may provoke me to anger. Do they provoke
me to anger? saith the Lord.”
In the first place, it is used of the act of the people in provoking
God: in the latter, it is used of the punishments inflicted. Do they
provoke me? No; they bring upon themselves the anger and fury of
Jehovah, as the next verse goes on to explain.

Jer. 8:14.-“Let us be silent there.” Thus the People propose to rest in
quietness and security in their sin. But the prophet answers them with
the same word in a different sense: “The Lord our God hath put us to
silence;” j.e., the silence of Divine punishment-the silence of death.
Jer. 34:17.-“Ye have not hearkened unto me, in proclaiming liberty ...
behold, | proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord.”

The people had refused to give “liberty” to the oppressed, which
He had commanded in verse 9. Therefore He will proclaim another
kind of liberty-liberty for the sword, and pestilence, and famine to
destroy them; as the context shows.

Eze. 20:24-26.-Here the figure is heightened by the structure of the
passage.

A а Because they had not executed my judgments,

b but had despised my statutes,
В апа had polluted my sabbaths ...
A Ь Wherefore | gave them statutes that were not good,
а and judgments whereby they should not live:
В — апа polluted them in their own gifts, etc.”

Mat. 8:22.-“Let the dead bury their dead.”

In the former place, the word refers to the spiritually dead, “dead in
sin’; in the latter, to those who have departed this mortal life.
Joh. 1:10.-“The world was made by Him (the Word), and the world
knew Him not.”

The former place refers to the created world, the latter to
unbelieving men.
Joh. 1:11.-“He came unto His own, and His own received Him not.”

In the former place, it refers to His own possessions (neuter
plural); in the latter, to His own people (masculine plural). See under
Polyptoton.
Joh. 2:23-24.-“Many believed (πιστεύειν, pisteuein) in His name,
when they saw the miracles which He did. But Jesus did not commit
himself (πιστεύειν, pisteuein) unto them.”

In the former place, the word “believed” means to assent to His
doctrines by a confession of faith; in the latter place, to trust as a
friend, to place confidence in. The words read therefore: “Many
believed in His name when they saw the miracles which He did. But
Jesus did not himself believe in them.”
Joh. 3:31.-“He that is of the earth (ἐκ τῆς γῆς, ek tees gees) is of the
earth (ἐκ τῆς γῆς, ek tees gees), and speaketh of the earth (ἐκ τῆς
γῆς, ek tees gees);” i.e., he that is of the earth (in respect to his
natural birth and origin) is of the earth (in respect to his nature) and
speaketh according (to his nature).
Joh. 4:31-32.-“His disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. But He
said unto them, | have meat to eat that ye know not of.”

In the former place, the word is used naturally of eating food; in the
latter, spiritually, of doing the Father’s will. See verse 34.
Joh. 19:22.-“What | have written, | have written.”

In the former place, it refers to the act of writing; in the latter, to the
writing which standeth written.
Rom. 2:12.-“As many as have sinned without law (ἀνόμως, anomaps)
shall also perish without law (ἀνόμως, апотф=). Here, in the former
case, it means not under the Law; in the latter, it means without the
judgment of the Law.
Rom. 2:26.-“If the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law,
shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision.”
In the former place, the word “uncircumcision” denotes the
Gentiles; and in the latter, their condition as fulfilling the requirements
of the Law. For this is the force of δικαίωµα (dikaiqma), which is not
righteousness as a state or condition, but the righteous requirements
of the Law.

Rom. 3:21.-“But now the righteousness of God without the law is
manifested, being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets.”

In the former case, the word denotes moral law (no article) without
the works of the law, as opposed to faith; in the latter case, the word
denotes the Mosaic Law (with article).

N.B.-There is no article before the word righteousness, so that it
means a Divine righteousness: the same as in chap. 1:17.

Rom. 3:27.-“Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? of
works? Nay; but by the law of faith.”

In the first place it refers to divine law; and in the second not to law
at all but to faith itself by the genitive of apposition, “the law, i.e., faith,”
as in 1:17. (See Appendix B).

Rom. 7:13.-“But sin, that it might appear sin.”
In the former place, sin is used of the old nature; while, in the latter
it is used of its real sinful nature and character.

Rom. 7:23.-“But | see another law in my members, warring against
the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin
which is in my members.”

In the first and third places, the word “law” refers to the old nature,
which is indwelling sin, because it once lorded it over him, though now
it only struggles to usurp again; in the second it refers to the divine law
(i.e., the new nature) implanted in him, which is contrary to the former,
and contests its claims.

Rom. 9:6.-“They are not all Israel which are of Israel.”

Here the former place refers to the true spiritual seed of Israel; the
latter denotes Israel according to the flesh, the natural descendants
from Israel's loins.

Rom. 12:13-14.-“Given (διώκοντες, αἰφκοπίες) to hospitality. Bless
them that persecute (διώκοντας, diqbkontas) you.”

The word διώκειν (αἰφκείη) is used in the former place, and means
to pursue or follow closely in a friendly sense; but, in the latter place, it
means the same in a hostile sense, to follow closely so as to
persecute.

In the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] , the figure is lost by translation. Literally, it is
“Follow up hospitality. Bless them that follow you up [fo injure you].
1Со. 11:24.-“And when He had given thanks, he brake it, and said,
Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you.”

Here the verb to break is used, in the former case, in its proper
signification: while, in the second place, it is used spiritually for the
sufferings and crucifixion of Christ; as is clear from Luk. 22:19, where
the word is “given.”
1Со. 15:28.-“And when all things shall be subdued (ὑποτάσσειν,
hupotassein) unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject
(ὑποτάσσειν, hupotassein) unto Him that put all things under Him.”

The verb means {ο arrange in order, but also to reduce to order.
The former sense is used of Christ, the latter of all others (as
explained on Psa. 110:1).* [Note: See Things to Come for October,
1898.]
1Со. 15:28.-“That put all things under him, that God may be all in all.”

In the first place “all” refers to all created things and beings; in the
second, to all universal power, “that God may be over all things; and,
in the third, it refers to all places.
“All,” being an adjective, must be associated with some noun
(expressed or implied) which it qualifies. Here the nouns are implied,
and the omission (see under Ellipsis) produces the figure of
Antanaclasis.
2Co. 5:21.-“For He hath made Him to be sin for us, who knew no sin.”

The order of the Greek is not ambiguous as is the English:-

“For He who knew no sin was made sin for us.” Here, in the
former place, it means “sin” in the ordinary acceptation of the word;
while in the latter place, it is put by Metonymy (q.v. [Note: Which 5εε.]
) for a sin-offering.

Eph. 1:3.-“Blessed (εὐλογητός, eulogeetos) be the God and Father of
our Lord Jesus Christ who hath blessed us (6 εὐλογήσας, ho
eulogeesas),” etc.

This is really Polyptoton. But here we repeat it in order to point out
that the word “blessed” is used in two different senses. We do not
bless God in the same way that He blesses us. The former word is
always used of God, the latter may be used of men. The former word
means the Being who is to be spoken well of, the latter means the
being of whom good has been lastingly spoken-especially by God
Himself.
1Ti. 6:5-6.-“Supposing that godliness is to be a way of making gain ...
but godliness with contentment Is a great way of making gain.”

Here the word πορισµός (porismos) is used in two opposite
associations. In the former case of what a false Christianity supposes
it to be; and in the second, what it really is.

Heb. 2:14.-“That through death he might destroy him that had the
power of death, that is, the devil.” Here, the first “death” is put by
Synecdoche, for the atoning results of Christ’s death: while the second
means the act and article of natural or physical death.

1Pe. 3:1.-“That, if any obey not the word [τῷ λόγῳ, tq Ιοοφ: i.e., the
Gospel], they also may without the word [λόγου, /ogou: i.e., speaking
or talking] be won by the conversation of the wives.”