(οἰκείφςίς), dwelling in the same house.

This figure is so called because two words are used, and in the
general sense, but with a different and more extended signification.
They dwell together as it were in the same house; and yet, while one
speaker takes up the word and uses it in the same sense, he yet
means a different thing.

The Latins called it COHABITATIO, cohabitation, a dwelling
together.

Mat. 5:19.-“Whosoever ... shall break one of these least
commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least
in the kingdom of heaven.”

In the former place, the allusion is to the distinction which the
Pharisees made between different commandments (just as Rome has
since made the distinction between “venial” and “mortal” sins). There
is no such distinction, and therefore, when in the latter place Christ
says “he shall be called the least,” He means that he will not be there
at all, for there will be no such distinction there. There is no least in
either case.

Mat. 18:1.-“Who, in that case, is the greatest in the kingdom of
heaven?” In verse 4 Christ answers, “Whosoever shall humble himself
as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven.”

In the former place the disciples use the word in its ordinary sense
of pre-eminence. But in the latter place Christ (alluding to the former
sense) means that no one except Himself has ever humbled Himself
thus: and who is to dispute that He must be greatest in that kingdom.
The occasion also is important; compare verse 1 with 17:24-27.
Mat. 19:16-17.-“And behold one came and said unto him, Good
Master, what good thing shall | do that | may have eternal life? And
He said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but
one, that is God.”

In the former case, the young man uses the word “good” of mere
creature goodness, such as he supposed Christ to have; while in the
latter case, the Lord alludes to the first, using the word in the same
sense, but not in the same way; thus teaching that there is no real
“good” apart from God-no “good” except that which comes from God
and returns to Him.

Joh. 6:28-29.-“What shall we do that we might work the works* [Note:
See Polyptoton.] of God? Jesus answered ... them, This is the work
of God, that ye believe on Him whom He hath sent.”

In the former case, the word “works” is used by the Jews in its
proper acceptation: it is repeated by Christ in the same sense, but with
another meaning altogether, as He goes on to explain.

Act. 26:28-29.-Here the apostle repeats the word “almost” (or “with
little” R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ) in the same sense, but
with a far higher and more extended meaning.
Syllepsis; or, Combination

The Repetition of the Sense without the Repetition of the Word
Syl-lep’-sis, from σύν (sun), together with, and λῆψις (leepsis) a
taking.

This name is given to the figure when only one word is used, and
yet it takes on two meanings at the same time.

The word itself is used only once; and ought to be, but is not
repeated in the next clause, being omitted by Ellipsis (q.v. [Note:
Which see.] ), but the two meanings are taken together with the one
word.

It is called SYNESIS (Syn’-e-sis), a joining or meeting together,
and SYNTHESIS (Syn -the-sis), a putting together, compounding,
from σύν (sun), together, and Τίθηµι (titheemi), to put or place.

The Syllepsis here considered is rhetorical rather than
grammatical (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). There is a form of Syllepsis
