Though there may be more than one word in the English, it does
not follow that there is more than one in the original.
Isa. 2:7-8.-We have it in alternate lines:

“Their land also is full of silver and gold,

Neither is there any end of their treasures;

Their land is also full of horses.

Neither is there any end of their chariots;
Their land also is full of idols, etc.”
Isa. 65:13-14.-‘Thus saith the Lord God,

“Behold my servants shall eat,

But ye shall be hungry.
Behold my servants shall drink,
But ye shall be thirsty.
Behold my servants shall rejoice,
But ye shall be ashamed.
Behold my servants shall sing for joy of heart,
But ye shall cry for sorrow of heart.”
In the last two lines we have Epistrophe in the word heart.
Jer. 9:23 (22).-Here, in the Hebrew, the three sentences begin, “Let
him not glory’ (fE|GUAEE, al-yithhalleyl), and each ends with the
pronominal suffix {, his.
1Co. 12:4-6.-Here in the Greek each verse begins With “diversities”
or differences (διαιρέσεις, diaireseis), and ends with “the same”
(αὐτός, autos).
1Co. 14:15.-Here the two words repeated and emphasized by
Symploce are “the spirit” and “the understanding.”
1Co. 15:42-44.-Here we have four pairs, a kind of double Anaphora.
“It is sown in corruption;
It is raised in incorruption.
It is sown in dishonour;
It is raised in glory.
It is sown in weakness;
It is raised in power.
It is sown a natural body;
It is raised a spiritual body.”
2Co. 9:6.-Here the Greek exhibits a beautiful example of this figure.
“He that soweth sparingly, sparingly shall reap also:
He that soweth bountifully, bountifully shall reap also.”
With this is combined the figure of Anadiplosis (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ), in the repetition of the words “sparingly” and “bountifully.”
Rev. 18:21-23.-To emphasize the complete overthrow of Babylon six
times we have the repeated words “no more.”
Babylon ... shall be found no more at all,
and the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and
trumpeters shall be heard in thee no more at all.

and no craftsman, of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found in
thee any more at all:

and the sound of a millstone shall be heard in thee no more
at all.

and the light of a candle shall shine in thee no more at all:

and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be
heard in thee no more at all.”

Here we have Anastrophe (i.e., Polysyndeton) combined with
Epistrophe.
(b) In a different order (but the same sense)
Epanodos; or, Inversion
