The Repetition of the same Words in an inverse Order (but same
Sense)
E-pan’-o-dos is from ἐπί (epi), upon, ava (ana), back, and ὁδός
(hodos), a way, and means a way back again, or more simply a return.

After two, three, or more words have been mentioned, they are
repeated, not in the same order again, but backward.

The Latins called it REGRESSIO, i.e., regression, and INVERSIO,
ie., inversion.

When propositions are inverted and thus contrasted, and not
merely the words, the figure is called ANTIMETABOLE (see the next
figure).

When only the subject matter is thus related it is called
CHIASMUS (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), though this may also be called
an Epanodos. This we have given under Correspondence. When
words or phrases are repeated in this inverse order it is called
SYNANTESIS, a meeting together.

Gen. 10:1-31.-

а 1-. Shem,

Ь -1-. Ham,
ο -1. and Japheth.
ο 2-5. The sons of Japheth.
Ь — 6-20. The sons of Ham.
a 21-91. The sons of Shem.
Exo. 9:31.-
а “And the flax
Ь — апа the barley was smitten,
Ь for the barley was in the ear,
а and the flax was bolled.”
Isa. 6:10.-
а “Make the heart of this people fat,
Ь — апа make their ears heavy,
ο — апа shut their eyes;
ο. lest they see with their eyes,
Ь — ап{ hear with their ears,

a — апа understand with their heart.”

Rom. 2:14.-“Which have not the law (ur) уброу, mee nomon) ... these
having not the law (уброу μὴ, nomon mee).” The figure, which does
not appear in the English, shows us that in the former sentence we
are to place the emphasis on the word “not,” and in the latter on the
word “law.”

N.B.-The words “by nature” must be read with “who have not the
law,” and not with the verb “do.” Gentiles by nature are not under the
Law of Moses, yet they do many things unconsciously in accordance
with it; and so far, they endorse it, and condemn themselves. The
keeping of this law can no more save them than the law of Moses can
save the Jews. All are under sin (3:9), the Gentile (chap. 1), the Jew
(chap. 2), and all alike guilty before God (3:19).

2Co. 1:3.-

а “Blessed be God,

Ь even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Ь — the Father of mercies,
а and the God of all comfort.”
3Jn. 1:11.-
а “Follow not that which is evil,
b but that which is good.
Ь — He that doeth good is of God;
а — But he that doeth evil hath not seen God.”
For further illustration see under Correspondence.
Antimetabole; or, Counterchange
Epanodos, with Contrast or Opposition
An ‘-ti-me-tab-o-lee, from ἀντί (anti), against, µετά (meta), reversely,
and βάλλειν (ballein), to throw.
This figure repeats the word or words in a reverse order, for the
purpose of opposing one thing to another, or of contrasting two or
more things. It is the figure of Epanodos with this special added object
