Hence, the name Paregmenon is used of the Figure when the words
are similar in origin and sound, but not similar in sense.

The Latins called it DERIVATIO.

This is one of the Figures common to all languages, but is
generally very difficult to translate from one tongue into another.

Psa. 68:28 (29).-“Thy God hath commanded thy strength (Age,
uzzechah): strengthen (ἄιέδ, uzzah) O God that which thou hast
wrought for us.”

Mat. 16:18.-“Thou art Peter (πέτρος, petros) and upon this rock
(πέτρα, petra) | will build my assembly.”

Here note (1) that Petros is not merely Simon’s name given by our
Lord, but given because of its meaning. “Petros” means a stone, a
piece of a rock, a moving stone which can be thrown by the hand.
While “petra” means a rock or cliff or crag, immovable, firm, and sure.
Both words are from the same root, both have the same derivation,
but though similar in origin and sound they are thus different in
meaning. This difference is preserved in the Latin, in which petros is
saxum, while petra is rupes or scopulus.

(2) In the case of petros, we have another figure: viz., Syllepsis, for
the word is used in two senses, though used only once. There is a
repetition, not of the word but of the thought which is not expressed:
“Thou art πέτρος,” where it is used as a proper name Peter, and there
is no figure: but the sense of the word is there as well, though not
repeated in words: “Thou art (πέτρος), a stone.” Thus there is a
metaphor implied, i.e., Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).
(3) While petros is used of Peter, petra is used of Christ: for so
Peter himself understood it (566 1Pe. 2:4-6, and Act. 4:11-12; and so
the Holy Spirit asserts in 1Co. 10:4. “And that rock (πέτρα) was
Christ,” where we have a pure metaphor (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ). So
that petros represents Peter’s instability and uselessness as a
foundation, while petra represents Christ's stability as the foundation
which God Himself has laid (1Co. 3:11. Isa. 28:16).

Joh. 13:7 appears to be the Figure of Paregmenon in the English. But
there is no figure in the Greek. “What | do thou knowest not now; but
thou shalt know hereafter.”

Here, the two words “know” are different in the Greek. The first is
οἶδα (oida), to know, as a matter of absolute knowledge, but the latter
is γινώσκω (ginqbskqp), to get to know, learn.

Joh. 15:2.-“Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away
(αἴρει, airei* [Note: Ι.6., he lifteth up, as in Luk. 17:13. Joh. 11:41. Act.
4:24. Rev. 10:5, and especially Dan. 7:4 (Theodotian’s Version). See
under Ellipsis, page 13.] ): and every branch that beareth fruit he
purgeth itt [Note: Ι.6., he pruneth it.] (καθαίρει, kathairei).”

Act. 8:31.-“Understandest thou what thou readest” (γινώσκεις &
ἀναγινώσκεις, gindskeis ha anagin¢pskeis).
Here, the former verb means to know by learning, to get to know;
and the latter (which is the same verb compounded with ava (and),
again, means to read, especially, to read out loud.

Rom. 2:1.-“Thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that
judgest (0 κρίνων, ho krinqpn), for wherein thou judgest (κρίνεις,
krineis) another thou condemnest (κατακρίνεις, katakrineis) thyself;
for thou that judgest (0 κρίνων, ho krindpn) doest the same things.”
Rom. 5:19.-“For as by one man’s disobedience (παρακοῆς,
parakoees) many were made sinners, so by the obedience (ὑπακοῆς,
hypakoees) of one shall many be made righteous.”

Rom. 12:3.-“Not to think of himself more highly (ὐπερφρονεῖν,
hyperphronein) than he ought to think (φρονεῖν, phronein); but to
think (φρονεῖν, phronein) soberly (σωφρονεῖν, scpphronein),” etc.;
ie., “but so to think that he may think soberly.”

1Co. 11:29.-“For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and
drinketh damnation (κρίµα, krima) to himself, not discerning
(διακρίνων, diakrindpn) the body [of the Lora].”

Here the last words “of the Lord” go out (according to L. [Note: .
Lachmann and his critical Greek Text.] T. [Note: . Tischendorf and his
critical Greek Text.] Tr. [Note: г. Tregelles and his critical Greek Text.]
WH. [Note: H. Westcott and Hort, and their critical Greek Text.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ). And the former word krima
means not damnation, but a matter for judgment, an accusation; while
the latter word diakringbn means to distinguish, to make a distinction;
though, by the act of communion, they professed to belong to the
Body of Christ, yet if they did not discern the truth connected with that
Body (i.e., Christ Mystical) and distinguish their fellow-members of that
Body from all others, they condemned themselves, they accused
themselves. For, while they ate and drank thus, they did so unworthily:
and by that very act they condemned themselves.

1Co. 11:31-32.-“For if we would judge (διεκρίνοµεν, diekrinomen)
ourselves, we should not be judged (ἐκρινόμεθα, ekrinometha). But
when we are judged (κρινόµενοι, krinomenoi) we are chastened of
the Lord, that we should not be condemned (κατακριθῶμεν,
katakrithcpmen) with the world.”
20ο. 4:8.-“Perplexed (ἀπορούμενοι, aporoumenoi), but not in despair
(ἐξαπορούμενοι, exUporoumenoi),” i.e., at a loss to know what to do,
but not utterly at a loss.

20ο. 5:4.-“Not for that we would be unclothed (ἐκδύσασθαι,
ekdusasthai), but clothed upon (ἐπενδύσασθαι, ependusasthai)”:
i.e., that we would not be found naked in the grave, but be clothed
with our resurrection body.

The figure belongs also to Paregmenon (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ).
26ο. 10:6.-“Having in a readiness to revenge all disobedience
(παρακοήν, parakoeen) when your obedience (ὑπακοή, hupakoee) is
fulfilled.” So Rom. 5:19.
2Th. 3:11.-“Working (ἐργαζομένους, ergazomenous) not at all, but
are busybodies (περιεργαζοµένους, periergazomenous).”

It is difficult to express the thought in English. The latter word
means to overdo anything; to do with pains what is not worth doing.
We might say doing nothing, yet over-doing; or, not as official, but
Officious; or, not busy, but fussy; or, not doing their own business, but
the business of others.

Heb. 10:34.-“Ye ... took joyfully the spoiling of your goods
(ὑπαρχόντων, huparchontdpn), knowing in yourselves that ye have in
heaven a better and an enduring substance (ὕπαρξιν, huparxin).”
Jam. 2:4.-“Are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become
judges of evil thoughts?” There the two words διεκρίθητε
(diekritheete) and κρίται (kritai) are from the same root: the former
means to make a distinction, and the latter judges.

Joh. 3:20.-“For if our heart condemn (καταγινώσκῃ, katagindskee)
us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth (γινώσκει, gindpskei)
all things.”

Both words are from the same root, and mean {ο know, but the
former to know something against; and the latter, simply to know, or
rather get to know, learn. For nothing can be hidden from God. Man
cannot get to know our hearts by any means which he may try. God
can; and does.

Paronomasia; or, Rhyming-Words
The Repetition of Words similar in Sound, but not necessarily in
Sense
