Similarly, as the New Testament (if not originally written in Hebrew,
and then at a very early date translated into Greek) is at least full of
Hebrew thought and idiom. (See under Idiom.) So that, though there
may be no Paronomasia in the Greek words, there may be in the
Hebrew thought, or in the Hebrew words which the Greek words
represent. In these cases, where the Paronomasia is in the Hebrew
thought, it is called Parechesis so far as the Greek is concerned. And
it is only when we go to the Hebrew thought that we can hear the
Hebrew words sounding beside the Greek words.

To put the difference in a simpler form: Two words similar in sound
are a Paronomasia with regard to their particular language, both
words being in the same language. But a Parechesis is found when
the two words are not in the same language.

The Greeks also called this figure

PAROMCEOSIS, from παρόμοιος, very much alike; and

PARISON or PARISOSIS, from παρά (para), beside, and ἴσος
(isos), equal to.

So that words equal to other words in one language are seen to be
similar to those in another language when placed beside them.
It follows, from what we have said, that all the examples of
Parechesis must occur in the New Testament:

Mat. 3:9.-“God is able of these stones to raise up children unto
Abraham.”

Here, there is no Paronomasia either in the Greek or the English,
but there is in the Hebrew thought. Hence, these would be this
Parechesis:-
fadéi (abanim), stones.
ἀᾷ6{ (banim), children.

“God is able of these abanim to raise up banim unto Abraham.”
Mat. 10:30.-“The very hairs of your head are all numbered.” idf,
mene, and idél, manyan.
Mat. 11:17.-“We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced
(ὠρξήσασθε, dprcheesasthe): we have mourned unto you, and ye
have not lamented (ἐκόψασθε, ekopsasthe).

There is a Homeeoteleuton in these two Greek words but no
Paronomasia. The Parachesis is seen by the Syriac, referring to which
the Lord doubtless used. There we see a beautiful example of
Paronomasia, for the word “danced” would be r-auld, rakedton,
and the word “lamented” would be ff-auld, arkedton.

In the English it would be:-“We have piped unto you and ye did not
leap: we have mourned unto you, and ye do not weep.”

Mat. 11:29.-“l am meek, and ye shall find rest.”

In the Peshito we have dé¢ (nich), and décf (n’yacha), and
better still in the Lewis-Codex IFG@¢Eld’ (v’enichkon), ie., / shall
give you rest,” i.e., | ат neech and v’eneechk¢pn.

Mar. 8:32.-The words of Peter to Jesus are rendered in the Lewis-
Codex:-“As if he pitied him: be it far from thee.” This is arn, haes;
cn, chas.
Luk. 7:41-42.-See Rom. 13:8.
Joh. 1:5.-“The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness
comprehended it not.”

In Syriac the word “darkness” would be -aé, keval, and
“comprehend” would be -ἀδ, kabbel.

Joh. 10:1.-“He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold” would
be id urn écéif, min tara letora.
Rom. 13:8.-“Owe no man anything but to оуе one another.”

In the Greek (as in the English) these words are very different: but,
to a Hebrew, the two words would immediately be, in the mind, ρά
(Ό, acheb and cla, chab. “Спфу, be debtor to no man, but achBb
one another.” The same is seen in Luk. 7:41-42.

Rom. 15:4.-“That we through patience ... might have hope.” This
would be naf, sabbar and nlay, subar (from the same root).

“That we through sabbar might have saubar.”
1Co. 1:23-24.-“We preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling-
block, and unto the Greeks foolishness; but unto them which are
called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the
wisdom of God.”

Here, there is a beautiful combination of words. By a simple
change of letters, the words signify cross, stumbling-block,
foolishness, power, and wisdom:-

iiéé (maskal) is cross.

JEUIE (michshepl) is stumbling-block.

néé (sechel) is foolishness.

Δὐδόδ (haschil) is power: ᾖθ., prosperity or success
resulting from power in doing anything.

uéé (sechel) is wisdom (1Ch. 22:12; 1Ch. 26:14. Pro. 12:8).

So that the whole passage would sound, in reading, thus:-“We
preach Christ, maskal, to the Jews michshgpl, and to the Greeks
sekel, but to them that are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the
haschil of God and the sechel of God.”
2Co. 11:17.-“But as it were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting.”
Here, foolishness and boasting are (from the same root)-
AUAEE (hithaltel) and
AUAIEES (nitheplel).
(d) With a different sound (but similar sense)
Synonymia; or, Synonymous Words
The Repetition of Words similar in Sense, but different in Sound and
Origin
Syn-o-nym -i-a, from σύν (sun), together with, and ὄνομα (onoma), а
name. A Synonym is so Called when the sense of two or more words
is similar, though the sound and appearance and derivation may be
