Exo. 1:7.-“And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increased, and
multiplied.”
Here, we are impressed with the extraordinary great and rapid
increase of Israel in Egypt, on which the Divine Comment in Psa.
105:24 is, “He increased His People exceedingly.” See also Gen. 46:3;
Deu. 26:5; Act. 7:17.

The figure of Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) is combined,
here, with Synonymia.

Exo. 2:23-25.-“And the children of Israel sighed by reason of the
bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason
of the bondage.”

Here the distress of the People is emphasized; as in the next
verses the faithfulness of God to His covenant is impressed upon us:

“And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his
covenant

with Abraham,

with Isaac, and

with Jacob:

and God looked upon the children of Israel,
and God had respect unto them.”
Here we have Anaphora (q.v. [Note: Which see-] ), in the repetition
of the word “with”: Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see] ), in the
repetition of the word “with,” combined with Synonymia, and all this in
order to emphasize this remarkable crisis and turning-point of Israel’s
history.

Exo. 12:2.-"This month shall be unto you the beginning of months: it
shall be the first month of the year to you.”

Thus the important fact of the change of the beginning of the year
is emphasized. It was no ordinary event; and it is thus impressed upon
the People.

Exo. 15:16.-“Fear and dread shall fall upon them.”
Exo. 34:6-7.-The import of the name “Jehovah” is revealed by a nine-
fold synonymous description, which may be thus exhibited:

“Jehovah passed by before him (Moses) and proclaimed Jehovah,
Jehovah, El

merciful,

and gracious,

longsuffering
and abundant in goodness
and truth,
keeping mercy for thousands,
forgiving iniquity,
and transgression,
and sin.”
Deu. 13:4.-“Ye shall walk after the Lord your God, and fear him,
and keep his commandments,
and obey his voice;
and ye shall serve him,
and cleave unto him.”

Here the synonyms are heaped together in order to emphasize the
steadfastness with which the people were to follow Jehovah, and to
impress them with the perfection demanded by the Law.

With this is combined Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ).

Deu. 20:3.-“Hear, O Israel, ye approach this day unto battle against
your enemies: let not your hearts faint,
fear not, and
do not tremble,
neither be ye terrified
because of them.”
Psa. 5:1-2 (2, 3).-
“Give ear to my words, O Lord,
Consider my meditation;
Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King and my God.”
So David’s words and meditation and cry and prayer and voice are
thus emphasized.
Psa. 6:8-9 (9, 10).-
“The Lord hath heard the voice of my weeping,
The Lord hath heard my supplication,
The Lord will receive my prayer.”
Here we have Anaphora (q.v. [Νοίε: Which see.] ) and Synonymia
in David's prayer, as well as in Jehovah’s hearkening thereto, in order
to emphasize the great truth conveyed in these two verses.

Psa. 7:14, (15).-
“Behold he travaileth with iniquity,
and hath conceived mischief,
and brought forth falsehood.”

Here we have a double series of synonyms: in the nouns, as well
as the verbs.

Psa. 7:15 (16).-
“He made a pit and digged it,
And he is fallen into the ditch which he made.”
Psa. 8:4 (5).-
“What is man that thou art mindful of him?
And the son Of man that thou visitest him?
Psa. 10:17.-
“Lord, thou hast heard the desire of the humble:
Thou wilt prepare their heart,
Thou wilt cause Thine ear to hear.”
Here Synonymia is enforced in the last line by Polyptoton (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).
Psa. 29:1-2.-
“Give the Lord, O ye sons of God (i.e., Angels; A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
16141, “mighty”)
Give the Lord glory and strength.
Give the Lord the glory due unto His name;
Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness.”
Psa. 32:1-2.-
“Blessed is he whose trangression is forgiven,
Whose sin is covered.
Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity.”

These three synonyms must be understood, in order to receive the
blessing which the figure here announces.

(1) Trangression is our (pesha), from the root, to break, to
break with; hence, to break covenant with, revolt, rebel (see 1Ki.
12:19; 2Ki. 8:20). When Jehovah says (Isa. 43:27): “Thy teachers
have transgressed.” He means they have revolted from Him. So with
Isa. 1:2.
(2) Sin is GCFU (chattath), a missing, not hitting the mark (Jdg.
20:16); also of the feet, to miss the step or footing; and hence,
stumble; then, to err, go astray, trespass. Every departure from God is,
therefore, a missing of the mark, and trespass against Him.

(3) Iniquity is Ald (aven), a bending or curving; then, of actions,
acting crookedly or perversely. It is generally rendered perverseness.
See Isa. 53:5 (where it is rendered iniquities), 6, 11; Jer. 33:8.

The first of these three words refers specially to thought, the
second to deed, and the third to word.

The first is “forgiven”: i.e., taken up and carried away (Gen. 27:3
(take); 58. 53:4 (borne), 12 (bare).

The second is “covered” by atonement.

The third is “not imputed”: i.e., not reckoned or counted. Gen.
50:20 : “Ye thought (or meant) evil against me; but God meant it for
good. (Here, we have the same word twice).

“Oh! the blessednessess!
Rebellion forgiven;
Errings atoned for;
Perverseness not imputed (or remembered).”

Compare Psa. 103:14 and. Isa. 43:25, where our infirmities which
man will not remember or make allowance for, God remembers, but
our sins and iniquities which man always remembers, God will
remember no more for ever.

Psa. 89:30-31 (34, 32).-
“If his children forsake my law,
And walk not in my judgments;

If they break my statutes,

And keep not my commandments.”

Here the Synonymia is alternated (positive and negative); together
with alternated Anaphora.

Pro. 4:14-15.-Here, the synonyms are heaped together to emphasize
the necessity, of avoiding all evil and evil persons.
“Enter not into the path of the wicked,
And go not in the way of evil men;

Avoid it,

Pass not by it,

Turn from it,

And pass away.”
Isa. 1:4.-Here, four synonymous descriptions are used to give some
estimate of Israel's condition. See under Anabasis and Ejphonesis.
Isa. 2:11-17.-We have already seen under the figure of Polysyndeton
(q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), how this passage is emphasised both by
that figure and by its structure.

We have now to note the bearing of another figure upon it: viz.,
Synonymia. But the use of this figure, the Synonyms are heaped
together in order still further to attract our attention; and to impress as
with the importance and emphasis, which the Holy Spirit would have
us give to this Scripture; in which “the Day of the Lord” is first
mentioned, and in which the essence of its meaning and character is
given.
There are two classes of words-a kind of double Synonymia-going
on at the same time: one marking the pride of man and the true
exaltation of the Lord, which shall mark that Day, and the other the
abasement of man which shall then take place.

Isa. 2:11. The lofty (aaa, gavah) looks of man shall be
humbled (1106, shaphel),
And the haughtiness (li, rum) of men shall be bowed
down (ga, shachach),
And the Lord alone shall be exalted (uaa, sagav) in that
day.
Isa. 2:12. For the Day of the Lord of hosts shail be upon every
one that is proud (afa, gaach) and lofty (i i, rum),
And upon every one (or thing) that is lifted up (dur,
nahsah);
And he shall be brought low (udé, shaphel):
Isa. 2:13. And upon all the cedars of Lebanon that are high
(i rum) and lifted up (dur, nasa),
And upon all the oaks of Bashan,
Isa. 2:14. And upon all the high ili, rum) mountains,
And upon all the hills that are lifted up (duit nasa),
Isa. 2:15. And upon every high (aaa, gavah) tower,
And upon every fenced wall,
Isa. 2:16. And upon all the ships of Tarshish,
And upon all pleasant pictures.
Isa. 2:17. And the loftiness (daa, navah) of man shall be
bowed down (uaa, shachah),
And the haughtiness li, rum) of men shall be made low
(UGE, shaphen):
And the Lord alone shall be exalted (uaa, sagav) in that
day.”
Here we have five words for high repeated fourteen times; and two
words for {ουν repeated five times.
The five:-
aaa (gavah). Three times: lofty, verse 11; high, verse 15;
loftiness, verse 17 (in R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] ‚ verses 11 and 15, lofty; in verse 17, loftiness),
tli (rum). Five times: haughtiness, verses 11, 17; lofty, verse
12 (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] , haughty);
high, verses 13, 14 (R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
18841, high).
waa (sagav). Twice: exalted, verses 11, 17 (so R.V. [Note:
The Revised Version, 1881.] ).
afa (gaah). Once: proud, verse 12 (so R.V. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] ).
dtr (nasa). Three times: lifted up, verses 12, 13, 14 (so R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).
The two:-
udé (shaphel). Three times: humbled, verse 11; brought low,
verse 12; made low, verse 17 (R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] , brought low).
ἧςς (shachach). Twice: bowed down, verses 11, 17 (so R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] ).
These two words occur also in verse 9.
It will be seen that the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has quite destroyed the figure
by its variety of rendering. The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version,
1881.] has evidently aimed at more uniformity, and has preserved one
English word for each Hebrew word, except in two cases, where in
verses 13 and 14 they have rendered ili (rum), high, and in 11, 17,
haughtiness, and 12, haughty. “Haughty” could hardly be used of trees
and mountains, but “high” could have been used of men, and thus
have made the translation uniform.

This is the first occurrence of the expression “the day of the Lord,”
and hence its definition is thus given and thus emphasized by the
figure of Synonymia.

The structure of the definition lends weight and solemnity to the
description:

А — 11. Definition of the Day. “Man” and “Men” brought low, and

God alone exalted.
В 12. Persons (every one).
В 13-16. Things (every thing).
А — 17. Definition of the Day. “Man” and “Men” brought low, and
God alone exalted.
The order of the words too in A and A is remarkable. In connection
with the loftiness of man they are arranged alternately.
verse 11.
Aa aaa (gavah),
b ἥί (rum),
verse 17.
Aa aaa (gavah),
b ἥί (rum),
While in the humbling of man they are arranged in an Epanodos
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] )
verse 11.
Α ο ὑἡὑδδ (shaphel),
а UGG (shachach),
verse 17.
A d UGG (shachach),
ο udé (shaphel),
Isa. 52:13.-“Behold my servant ... shall be exalted, and extolled, and
be very high.”

Thus the future exaltation of the Messiah is emphasized.

Jer. 13:17.-“But if ye will not hear it, my soul shall weep in secret
places for your pride; and mine eye shall weep sore, and run down
with tears, because the Lord’s flock is carried away captive.”

This sorrow of the prophet thus emphasized was seen in greater
solemnity when the Saviour in later days wept over Jerusalem (Luk.
19:41).

Jer. 48:29.-“We have heard the pride of Moab,
(he is exceeding proud),
his loftiness,
and his arrogancy,
and his pride,
and the haughtiness of his heart.”
Here is a six-fold Synonymia combined with Parenthesis (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ) and Polysyndeton. And all to exhibit the terrible
pride of Moab which was to be punished. Compare Isa. 16:6.

Nah. 2:11-12 (12, 13).-
“Where is the dwelling of the lions,
And the feeding place of the young lions,
Where the lion, even the old lion, walked, and the lion’s
whelp,
And none made them afraid?
The lion did tear them in pieces enough for his whelps,
And strangled for his lionesses,” etc.
Zep. 1:15.-“That day is
a day of wrath,
a day of trouble
and distress,
a day of wasteness
and desolation,
a day of darkness,
and gloominess,
a day of clouds
and thick darkness.”

Here these Synonyms are heaped up to impress the wicked with
the terrors of “that day.” This is further heightened by being combined
with the figures: Epizeuxis (q.v. [Note: Which see] ), verse 14,
Mesarchia (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ), Mesadiplosis (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ), Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), and Asyndeton (q.v.
[Note: Which 5εε.]).

Zep. 2:9.-Moab and Ammon shall be as Sodom and Gomorrah,
“aven the breeding of nettles,
and saltpits,
and a perpetual desolation.”
Mar. 12:30.-“And thou shalt love the Lord thy God
with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul,
and with all thy mind,
and with all thy strength.”

Thus is the first and great commandment emphasized by the
combined figures of Homoeoteleuton (q.v. [Note: Which see] ),
Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), and Synonymia, in order to
convict us of the impossibility of keeping this law and to bring us to the
feet of Christ, who alone could keep it: that so we might be impressed
with a sense of our own impotence, and cause us thankfully to cast
ourselves on His omnipotence (see Luk. 10:27).

Luk. 10:27.-See Mar. 12:30.
Act. 2:23.-“Counsel and foreknowledge, Crucified and
slain.”
Rom. 2:4.-“Or despisest thou the riches of His
goodness,
and forbearance,
and longsuffering?”
Here Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) is combined with
Synonymia.
Rom. 2:7.-“To them who by patient continuation in well-doing seek for
glory,
and honour,
and immortality,
[He will give] eternal life.”
See under Ellipsis.
Rom. 2:8-9.-“But unto them that are contentious, and do not obey the
truth, but obey unrighteousness, [will be rendered]
indignation and
wrath,
tribulation, and
anguish.”
See under Ellipsis.
Rom. 2:10.-“But glory, honour, and peace [will be rendered] to every
man that worketh good, etc.”
See under Ellipsis.
Rom. 2:18-20.-In these verses the synonyms are heaped together to
describe the Jew who causes the Name of God to be blasphemed
among the Gentiles (verse 24).
Rom. 6:6.-“Knowing this that our old man is (was) crucified with him
(Christ), that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we
should not serve sin.”
Here all three terms refer, by the figure of Synonymia, to different
aspects of the same thing:
The “old man” expresses the origin in Adam.
By reason of its powers and operations it is called “the body of
sin,” or sinful body.
And, lastly, its very nature and character is expressed by the name
of “sin.”
Rom. 9:33.-“Stumbling-stone and rock of offence.”
Rom. 10:15.-“Gospel of peace, and ... glad tidings of good things.”
1Co. 14:21.-“With men of other tongues and other lips, etc.”
Gal. 1:12.-“For | neither received it of man, neither was | taught it,
but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.”

Thus is emphasized the special commission which Paul received
direct from God; and thus is it distinguished from that commission
which had been given to the Twelve.
Gal. 5:19-21.-The works of the flesh are emphasized by sixteen
synonyms, and by the figure of Asyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which see-_] ).
Eph. 1:20-21.-To describe the exaltation of Christ we are told how He
has been set “Far above all

principality,

and power,

and might,

and dominion,

and every name that is named,” etc.
Eph. 5:19.-Here the three synonyms, “Psalms, and hymns, and
spiritual songs,” are used to emphasize the true inward and spiritual
occupation of the heart with Christ, which is at once the result of being
“filled with the Spirit” (verse 18), and the test or the measure of being
so filled.

It may be well to define these synonyms: Ψαλμός (psalmos)
means a touching, then a touching of an instrument with a “plectrum.”
ψάλλω (рзайф), the verb, means to sweep the strings. So that the
noun was used first of the instrument, and then of the song
accompanied by it. It is used seven times in the New Testament, and
four times of the Book of Psalms (Luk. 20:42; Luk. 24:44. Act. 1:20;
Act. 13:33), and three times of psalms generally (1Co. 14:26. Eph.
5:19. Col. 3:16). This points to the conclusion that the psalms referred
to here are the inspired Psalms of the Old Testament.

ὕμνος (hymnos), whence our word “hymn,” which was originally a
heathen word used of a song in praise of a god or hero after death.
The word was so steeped in profane and idolatrous associations that
the early Christians hesitated to use it, and it was not till the fourth
century that it came to be generally adopted. But then it was
studiously confined to a direct address of praise and glory to the true
and living God; whereas the Psalm might commemorate the mercies
and blessings He bestowed. It occurs only here and Col. 3:16. The
verb ὑμνέω (hymned) occurs four times (Mat. 26:30. Mar. 14:26. Act.
16:25, and Heb. 2:12). The latter two passages fully confirm the
limited use of the word: “And sang praises unto God” (Act. 16:25).
“Will | sing praise unto Thee” (Heb. 2:12), while the former two would
refer to the Old Testament Psalms always sung at the Passover.

ᾠδή (фаее), whence our word “ode,” occurs seven times,* [Note:
The verb dwt (ad › ) occurs five times (Eph. 5:19. Col. 3:16. Rev. 5:9;
Rev. 14:3; Rev. 15:3).] five in the Apocalypse, and two in the Epistles
(Eph. 5:19, and Col. 3:16), where it is specially combined with
πνευματική (pneumatikee) spiritual, implying very strongly that they
were composed by spiritual persons, and had to do only with the
things pertaining to the Spirit of God. The heathen used it of any kind
of song: harvest, festal, wedding, or battle, etc. Hence the limitation
suggested by the word “spiritual,” as distinct from these.

Although the first word, psalmos, implies musical instruments, it
was only in Old Testament worship that these were used: not in the
New Testament, nor in the Primitive Church. Basil, Ambrose, and
Chrysostom all speak in panegyrics on music, but do not mention
instrumental music. Indeed, Clement of Alexandria, forbade the use of
the flute in the Agape, though he permitted the harp. Basil condemns
it, and Justin Martyr expressly says that it was not used in the
Christian Church.

There is no gift of God which fallen man has not misused, and
indeed diverted, or rather perverted from its original design. The great
enemy uses it for the destruction of spiritual worship, under the guise
of aiding it; and few discern the meshes of his marvellously clever
snare.t [Note: See Intoned Prayers and Musical Services, by the
same author and publisher. One penny.]
Music and singing are clearly defined in these two passages Eph.
5:19 and Col. 3:16. The three verbs are “speaking,” “teaching,” and
“admonishing.” This is to be done “to yourselves,” “in you,” “in your
hearts,” “admonishing yourselves” (ἑαυτούς, heautous), not “one
another” (see R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] margin). The
great requirement for this is “the Spirit” and “all wisdom” and “grace.”

The words “be filled with the Spirit* [Note: It will be seen, under the
Figure of Metonymy, that the word “Spirit” here (as in several other
passages) is put for the gifts of the Spirit.) ” are usually quoted as
though they were followed by a full stop, and formed a complete
sentence. This is not the case. How is any one to know whether he is
filled with the Spirit? The answer is given:-

“The word of Christ” will dwell in him richly: i.e., the word spoken
by Christ and the word relating to Christ: the word which has Christ for
its object and Christ for its subject, or Christ Himself “by” (ἐν, en) the
Spirit.

This indwelling of Christ will be the evidence of the Holy Spirit’s
presence and operation. For the Spirit and the Word can never be
separated. He gives it; and He uses it, and operates through it. It is
His work to take of the things of Christ and show them unto us, and
thus to “glorify” Christ; never calling our attention to His work in us, but
to Christ’s work for us.

When this word thus dwells in us, we shall be full of its wondrous
Psalms; we shall be speaking in ourselves to God, by our hymns: and
our songs will be spiritual, because they will be sung in our hearts.
There will be the melody which ascends and reaches up to the
Presence of God: because it will be a “singing by grace and with grace
unto God.”

This occupation of the heart with Christ and His Word will be the
measure in which we are filled with the Spirit (i.e., with spiritual gifts).

It will be the singing of the “heart,” and not of the throat: and it will
be “to the praise and glory of God” (as it used to be) and not to the
praise and glory of the choir or of the performers. The heart which is
indwelt by the Spirit, can sing to God. It will need no “soloist” to do it
by proxy. For we are not commanded to listen to the singing of
another or others, however exquisite it may be, but to sing ourselves
as worshippers. This singing requires no “ear for music,” but it needs a
“heart” for Christ. For this music comes from God and returns to God.

In the Word of God, prayer is always spoken, and never sung:-

“Moses besought the Lord, saying” (Deu. 3:23; Exo. 32:11, etc.).
“Manoah intreated the Lord), and said” (Jdg. 13:8).

“Hannah prayed, and said” (1Sa. 2:1).

“Elisha prayed, and said” (2Ki. 6:17).

“Daniel prayed, and made confession, and said’ (Dan. 9:4; Dan.
9:20).

Indeed prayer is contrasted with praise, for “Solomon spread forth
his hands towards heaven, and said’ (1Ki. 8:22-23; 1Ki. 8:54). But
when it is a question of praise then we read that it was made with
music and singing. (2Ch. 5:12-13).

In the upper room the Lord and His apostles “sang a hymn” (Mat.
26:30); but when in Gethsemane “He fell on his face and prayed,
saying” (verse 39).

In Jam. 5:13 they are again set in contrast: “Is any among you
afflicted? let him pray. Is any merry? let him sing psalms.”
This universal testimony of Scripture settles for us the question as
to the distinction between prayer embodied in hymns and prayer sung
instead of said. That testimony of Scripture is dead against the singing
of prayers in any form or manner. It draws no distinction between
intoning prayers and singing them. Intoning is singing, and nothing
else: it is merely singing on one note instead of many. It is art and
artificial; it is unnatural and unreal-neither pleasing to God nor edifying
for man.

Public worship is that in which the Word of God should be read,
prayers prayed, and praise sung. God’s Word we read, not as our
own, but as His, for our instruction. In prayer and praise we say and
sing our own words, as our own. It is therefore no argument to urge
that the Psalms were sung and they contain prayers. For

(1) We do not admit the first premises. Too little is known to justify
the assertion that all the Psalms were sung. Some were, undoubtedly;
and these may be sung by us to-day, if we can adopt the words as our
own; but not otherwise.

(2) We cannot adopt the words of all the Psalms as our own, but
only so far as they are in harmony with the New Testament teaching
as to our standing in Christ. The language of those which were under
the Old Covenant of Works cannot be adopted as the language of
those who are under the New Covenant of Grace.

We may read them as we read the other Scriptures for our
instruction, but we might just as well sing the Lessons as sing some of
the Psalms.

Again we repeat, therefore, the other New Testament Rubrick-“Is
any afflicted? let him pray. Is any merry? let him sing Psalms” (Jam.
5:13); and we conclude that prayer is to be said, and praise is to be
sung. Praise may even be said; for three times are songs said to be
spoken. The Song of Moses (Deu. 31:30); the Song of Deborah (Jdg.
5:12); and the Song of David (2Sa. 22:1; Psa. 18:1-50 Title). But, while
praise may be spoken, prayer is never said to be sung.

Instead, therefore, of flying in the face of the universal testimony of
Scripture, simply because prayer is embodied by human poets in our
hymns, we ought rather to question whether the prayer in hymns
should not be said, and only our hymns of praise sung. But habits
once formed are too strong for us to entertain the hope of making so
radical a reformation; though it would be better, if not easier, to alter a
wrong habit than to alter the testimony of the Word of God.

Php. 4:9.-“Those things which ye have both learned,
and received,
and heard,

and seen in me, do.”
Col. 1:16.-“For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and
that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or
dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by
him, and for him.”

Here we are impressed with the wonders of the invisible world, of
which so little is revealed.

Col. 3:16.-See Eph. 5:19.
1Ti. 1:2.-“Grace, mercy, and peace.”

So also in the other two so-called “Pastoral Epistles,” 2Ti. 1:2, and
Tit. 2:4.

In all the other epistles it is only “grace,” or “grace and peace.” In
these three epistles “mercy” is added: as though to imply that with the
many responsibilities of the pastoral office, God’s “mercy” would be
specially needed by those who exercised pastoral duties in the Church
of God.
1Ti. 3:15.-“That thou mayest know how thou oughtest (Π.Ν. [Note: The
Revised Version, 1881.] , how men ought) to behave thyself [or what
conduct is incumbent on us] in

the house of God,

which is the Church of the living God,

the pillar and ground of the truth.”
What this is is shown in the next verse, viz., the “great secret”
concerning Christ Mystical and not Christ Personal.* [Note: See The
Mystery, by the same author and publisher.

See also under Hendiadys.]

This great Mystery is the Body of Christ, the House in which God
dwells by His Spirit; the assembly of the saints peculiarly belonging to
the living God, as purchased with the blood of the everlasting
covenant; and this is the pillar and ground-the great foundation pillar
of the truth, so specially revealed to Paul to make known among the
Gentiles.
2Ti. 1:2.-See 1Ti. 1:2.
2Ti. 3:14-15.-“But continue thou in the things which thou
hast learned and
hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou
hast learned them. And that from a child thou
hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise,
etc.”

Here the importance of personal knowledge and study of the word
of God is enforced: not a mere acquaintance with the letter, but an
assurance of the truth.
Tit. 1:4.-See 1Ti. 1:2.