Cee’-no-tees. Greek, κοινότης (koinotees), sharing in common. The
figure is so called when two separate phrases are repeated, one at the
beginning and the other at the end of successive sentences or
paragraphs.

When only words are thus repeated, the figure is called Symploce
(α.ν. [Note: Which see.] ), which is repeated Epanadiplosis.

It is a combination of Anaphora and Epistrophe; but, affecting
phrases rather than single words.

The Latins sometimes called this figure (as well as Symploce)
COMPLEXIO, combination.
Psa. 118:2-4.-This is clearer in the Hebrew, where the three verses
begin successively with the words, “Let say,” and end With the words,
“for his mercy endureth for ever.”
Psa. 118:8-9.-

“It is better to trust in the Lord

than to put confidence in man:
It is better to trust in the Lord
than to put confidence in princes.”

See also Psa. 118:15-16.-

“The right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly,

The right hand of the Lord is exalted:

The right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly.”

In verses 10-12 there are three figures combined: There is
Anaphora, in the repetition of “They compassed me” at the beginning
of several clauses; Epistrophe, in the repetition of “In the name of the
Lord | will destroy them” at the end; and in verse 11 we have
Epizeuxis in “they compassed me” being repeated in immediate
succession.

Psa. 136:1-3.-Where the three successive verses begin with the
words, “O, give thanks,” and end with the words “for his mercy
endureth for ever.”
Epibole; or, Overlaid Repetition
The Repetition of the same Phrase at irregular Intervals

E-pi‘-bo-lee is from ἐπιβάλλειν (epiballein), to cast upon. The figure is
so named, because the same sentence or phrase is cast upon or laid
upon (like layers or courses of bricks) several successive paragraphs.

It thus differs from Anaphora (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) in that it
consists of the repetition of several words, whereas in Anaphora only
one word is repeated.
Exo. 16:35.-“And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years,
until they came to a land inhabited; they did eat manna, until they
came unto the borders of the land of Canaan.”
Num. 9:18.-“At the commandment of the Lord the children of Israel
journeyed, and at the commandment of the Lord they pitched.”
Jdg. 5:27.-

“At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down:

At her feet he bowed, he fell: where he bowed, there he fell

down dead.”
