Epibole; or, Overlaid Repetition
The Repetition of the same Phrase at irregular Intervals

E-pi‘-bo-lee is from ἐπιβάλλειν (epiballein), to cast upon. The figure is
so named, because the same sentence or phrase is cast upon or laid
upon (like layers or courses of bricks) several successive paragraphs.

It thus differs from Anaphora (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) in that it
consists of the repetition of several words, whereas in Anaphora only
one word is repeated.
Exo. 16:35.-“And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years,
until they came to a land inhabited; they did eat manna, until they
came unto the borders of the land of Canaan.”
Num. 9:18.-“At the commandment of the Lord the children of Israel
journeyed, and at the commandment of the Lord they pitched.”
Jdg. 5:27.-

“At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down:

At her feet he bowed, he fell: where he bowed, there he fell

down dead.”
See under Anaphora, and Asyndeton.
Psa. 29:3-4 (twice), 5, 7, 8, 9.-Where seven times, we have the
words, “The voice of the Lord,” commencing seven successive
clauses. The number of spiritual perfection.
Isa. 2:7-8.-“Their land also is full of silver and gold ... Their land
also is full of idols.”
Isa. 5:8; Isa. 5:11; Isa. 5:18; Isa. 5:20-22.-Six times we have
paragraphs beginning “Woe unto them.”
Mat. 6:19-20.-We cannot forbear to quote these verses according to
their structure.
Α Lay not up for yourselves.
В Treasures upon earth,
C Where moth and rust doth corrupt,
Ώ And where thieves break through and steal:
Α But lay up for yourselves.
В Treasures in heaven,
C Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt,
Р And where thieves do not break through nor steal.
It will be seen how in each member there is the Correspondence
(q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) of the same words, ог thought, by way of
comparison or contrast.
Act. 20:22; Act. 25:1-27.-Where two solemn statements are
emphasized by commencing
“And now, behold, | go ...
And now, behold, | know.”
Synantesis; or, Introverted Repetition
The Repetition of the same Sentences or Phrases in Inverse Order
Syn-an-tee-sis, from συναντάω (sunantaq), to meet face to face,
means a meeting.
It is similar to Epanodos and Antimetabole (q.v. [Note: Which see.]
), but differs from them in that it relates to the inverse repetition of
sentences and phrases rather than of single words.
See, for examples, under Parallelism and Correspondence, below.
5. Repetition of Subjects
