other words, and thus worked out and developed. It, therefore,
resembles Synonymia; but differs from it in that not merely
synonymous words are repeated, but synonymous expressions or
sense.

It is sometimes called EPEXERGASIA, {6., the addition of the
preposition ἐπί (epi), upon, to the word exergasia and implies a
working out upon. Words of the same signification are repeated to
make plainer the previous statement: or to illustrate the sense of what
has been mentioned before.

The Latins called it EXPOLITIO. a polishing up; because by such
repetition the meaning is embellished as well as strengthened and not
merely explained or interpreted as in other repetitions.

This figure necessarily implies that the separate repetitions must
be placed in parallel lines.

It is of frequent occurrence, and therefore we can give only a few
examples.

Psa. 17:1.-
“Hear the right, O Lord,
Attend unto my cry,
Give ear unto my prayer.”
Psa. 18:1-2.-
“| will love thee О Lord, my strength.
The Lord is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer:
My God (ΕΙ), my strength, in whom | will trust;
My buckler, the horn of my salvation, and my high tower.”
Psa. 35:1-3.-

а10 “Plead my cause, О Lord, with them that strive with me;
Ρ15 Fight against them that fight against me.

82” Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help.
b22 Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them

that persecute me:
43: Say unto my soul, | am thy salvation.
632 4-8. Let them, etc.”

And so the Psalm goes on. In a1, a2, and a3, we have prayer for
himself (Defensive), and in b1, b2, and b3, prayer against his enemies
(Offensive). In each case the meaning is further developed.

Psa. 35:4.-

“Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my

soul:

Let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise

my hurt.

Let them be as the chaff before the wind:
And let the angel of the Lord chase them, etc.”
In verses 4-8 we have:
e204. Prayer against those who devise evil.
9229 5. The angel of the Lord.
а220 6. The angel of the Lord.
2307, 8. Prayer against those who devise evil.
Jon. 2:2 (3).-
а299 “I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the Lord,
Ρ”Γ3 and he heard me:
α Out of the belly of hell (Sheol) cried |,
b=0 and thou heardest my voice.”
Jon. 2:3 (4).-
ο For thou hadst cast me into the deep,
а290 jn the midst of the seas;
а223 and the floods compassed me about:
call thy billows and thy waves passed over me.”
Here, in a and a we have Jonah’s affliction: and in b and b
Jehovah's respect to him. In ο and с we have the deep as a whole,
and in d and а the waters which make it up.
Zec. 6:12-13.-
“Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying:
Behold, the man whose name is the BRANCH;
And he shall grow up out of His place,
And He shall build the temple of the Lord:
Even He shall build the temple of the Lord:
And He shall bear the glory,
And shall sit and rule upon His throne;
And He shall be a priest upon His throne:
And the counsel of peace shall be between them.”

Here, the figure is enhanced by Polysyndeton (q.v. [Note: Which
see] ).

Epimone; or, Lingering
Repetition in order to dwell upon for the sake of Impressing

E-pim’-o-nee. Greek, ἑπιμονή, a staying on, or dwelling upon, from ἑτή
(epi), upon, and μένω (men?), to remain, or dwell. In Latin
COMMORATIO.
