Psa. 1:1.-“Blessed is the man
that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly,
nor standeth in the way of sinners,
nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.”
Here is a triple Anabasis depending on Parallelism (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).
The first are impious, as to their mind.
The second are sinners, who not only think, but carry out the
workings of their evil minds.
The third are scorners, glorying in their wickedness and
scoffing at righteousness.
Again, the first continue in that mind, taking evil counsel.
The second carry it out, as the principle of their walk.
The third settle down in their evil, as on a seat.
These three are exemplified in the first three verses of the next
Psalm, where a corresponding Anabasis is seen:-
Psa. 2:1-3.-First, we have the “heathen”: i.e., the Gentile nations; then
“the peoples”: i.e., the Tribes of God, Israel imagining vain things; and
in the third, we have “kings” and “rulers,” all conspiring together.
Act. 4:27 gives us the fulfilment:-(1) we have the kings and rulers
taking counsel; (2) we have the rage and vain imaginations; and (3)
the open and actual rebellion. On Psa. 1:1, see page 350.
Psa. 7:5.-
“Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it;
Yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth.
And lay mine honour in the dust.”
Psa. 18:37-38.-
“| have pursued mine enemies,
And overtaken them:
Neither did | turn again till they were consumed.
| have wounded them that they were not able to rise:
They are fallen under my feet.”
Isa. 1:4.-
“Ah sinful nation,
A people laden with iniquity,
Aseed of evildoers,
Children that are corrupters.”
Eze. 2:6.-“And thou son of man,
be not afraid of them,
neither be afraid of their words,
though briers and thorns be with thee,
and thou dost dwell among scorpions:
Be not afraid of the words,

nor be dismayed at their looks,
though they be a rebellious house.”

And why this Anabasis? To impress upon us that whatever
opposition we may encounter, we are to speak and give forth the word
of God, whether men will hear or whether they will forbear (verses 5
and 7), and not to corrupt it or alter it to please the people: to distribute
versions of it, not “the best that people will take,” but the best that we
can make.

Dan. 9:5.-

“We have sinned,

and have committed iniquity,

and have done wickedly,

and have rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and

from thy judgments.”

Hab. 1:5.-

“Behold ye among the heathen,

and regard,

and wonder marvellously:
For | will work a work in your days, which ye will not believe,
though it be told you.”
Zec. 7:11-
“But they refused to hearken,
And pulled away the shoulder,
And stopped their ears that they should not hear.
Yea, they made their hearts as an adamant stone, lest they
should hear the law, etc.”
Thus the Anabasis powerfully and emphatically sets forth the
secret cause of Israel’s trouble.
Zec. 8:12.
“For the seed shall be prosperous,
The vine shall give her fruit,
And the ground shall give her increase,
And the heavens shall give their dew,
And | will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these
things.”
1Со. 4:8.-
“Now ye are full,
Now ye are rich,
Ye have reigned as kings without us.”

See under Asyndeton
19π. 1:15

“That which was from the beginning,

which we have heard,

which we have seen with our eyes,

which we have looked upon,

and our hands have handled, of the Word of life.”

As contrasted with Anabasis, we here introduce Catabasis, instead
of including it under Figures involving Omission, in order that the
contrast may be more clearly seen.