From the fact that such enumeration or combination sometimes
made the argument or statement drag, the figure was called
SYRMOS, which is the Greek συρµός (syrmos), a trailing, from σύρειν
(surein), to drag, trail along. And, because a number of different words
were thus united, it was also called EIRMOS (eir’-mos), from eipw
(eir?), to string together.

It differs from Merismus in that the things enumerated are not first
briefly mentioned under one head: and it differs from Synonymia, in
that they are not synonymous, but may be of many kinds and
descriptions.

It also differs from Symperasma, in that they do not occur at the
conclusion, but in the course of what is said.

The use of the figure is to enrich a discourse, or part of it, by
enumerating particulars, or by multiplying epithets.

All the figures which we are grouping under this head are figures
of Amplification, otherwise this is called by some Amplificatio. But we
have used this as a general term for the whole group and have not
restricted it to any one particular figure.

Isa. 1:11; Isa. 1:13.-“To what purpose is the multitude of your
sacrifices unto me? saith the Lord: | am full of the burnt offerings of
rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and | delight not in the blood of
bullocks, or of lambs, or of he-goats ... Bring no more vain oblations;
incense is an abomination unto me.”
One sentence would have expressed the whole, “your sacrifices
are not pleasing to me.” But, by the figure Synathroesmos, all kinds of
sacrifices are enumerated, and the sense is thus amplified and
emphasized to show that, with all their outward show of “religion,”
there was no true worship of the spirit and heart.

So with the feasts, in verse 14, and with prayers, in verse 15.

The figure is used here to emphasize the fact that religious
ordinances and services are nothing in themselves.

In the days of our Lord there was plenty of “religion”: Isa. 1:1-31
describes the abundance of it; but there was no heart in it. It was all
form! and it was these very religious people (and not the rabble) who
crucified the Lord!

Isa. 3:16-23.-Неге, the various ornaments of women are heaped
together, to heighten the effect, and to emphasize the awful judgment
of verses 24-4:1.

Rom. 1:29-31.-Here, many abominations of the heathen are
enumerated to show what is the outcome of the “reprobate mind.”

There are other figures in this passage. See under Paronomasia,
Ellipsis, and Asyndeton.

It will be easy to recognize this figure whenever it is met with.
1Ti. 4:1-3.-Here, is an enumeration of the characters which will make
the “latter times” so perilous. Also in
2Ti. 3:1-7, we have another enumeration.
1Pe. 4:3.-Here, are enumerated the things which characterize the
condition of the Gentiles.
Epitrochasmos; or, Summarising
A running lightly over by way of Summary

When the enumeration called Synathroesmus is made, not for the
sake of amplifying, but only for the sake of abbreviating, by
summarising, so as to hurry over what is being said (rather than for
the sake of dwelling upon it), so as to pass on quickly to another
subject, it is then called EPITROCHASMOS (Ep -i-tro-chas-mos),
from étri (epi), upon or over, and τροχάζειν (trochazein), to run along
quickly. Hence Epitrochasmus means a running lightly over.

The Latins called it PERCURSIO, which means a running through.

In this connection, it is practically the same as Asyndeton (q.v.
[Note: Which see.] ), where examples may be found. See Exo.
