1. Promise.

2. Anger and Threatening.

3. Grief and Complaint.

4. Enquiry and Deprecation.

1. Promise: where some great thing is promised, too great to be
conveyed in words
Exo. 32:31-32.-“And Moses returned unto the Lord, and said, Oh, this
people have sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.
Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin--; and if not, blot me, | pray thee,
out of thy book which thou hast written.”

Here it seems that Moses was about to promise something on
behalf of the people; but neither knew what promise he could make for
them, nor how far he could answer for its fulfilment by them. His
sudden silence is solemnly eloquent.
2Sa. 5:8.-“And David said on that day, Whosoever getteth up to the
gutter--.”

We learn from 1Ch. 11:6 that the promise was fulfilled in Joab, who
was made chief or captain. Hence these words have been supplied in
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] ‚ as we have explained above, under the figure of
Absolute Ellipsis, page 53.
1Ch. 4:10.-“And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that
thou wouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast, and that thine
hand might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that
it may not grieve me--”

Then there is a sudden silence, as though it were impossible for
Jabez to express the manner in which he would give God thanks and
declare his praise for His great mercies. But the words that
immediately follow seem to show that God was so much more ready
to hear than Jabez was to pray, that without waiting for him to finish
his prayer it is added, “And God granted him that which he requested.”
Dan. 3:15.-“Now if ye be ready that at what time ye hear the sound of
the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery and dulcimer, and all kinds of
music, ye fall down and worship the image which | have made -- but if
ye worship not,” etc.

Here Nebuchadnezzar was ready with his threat of the
punishment, but he was careful not to commit himself to any promise.
Luk. 13:9 has already been treated under the figure of Ellipsis: but
beside the grammatical ellipsis, there is also the rhetorical: “And if it
bear fruit--,” as though the vine-dresser would say, “I cannot say what
| will not do for it: not only will | not cut it down, but | will continue to
care for it and tend it!” The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or
current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] has supplied the word, “well!”
2. Anger and Threatening
Gen. 3:22.-“And now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the
tree of life, and eat, and live for ever--Therefore the Lord God sent him
forth from the garden of Eden,” etc.

Here the exact consequences of eating of the tree of life in his
fallen condition are left unrevealed, as though they were too awful to
be contemplated: and the sudden silence leaves us in the darkness in
which the Fall involved us. But we may at least understand that
whatever might be involved in this unspoken threatening, it included
this fact:-/ will drive him away from the tree of life!

Gen. 20:3.-“Behold, thou art but a dead man-- for the woman which
thou hast taken; for she is a man’s wife.”

Here, we must supply # thou dost not restore her; or, her husband
will slay thee. This is clear from verse 7.

Jam. 3:1.-“My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall
receive the greater condemnation--.”

He does not stop to specify what the many things are, in which
those who occupy such positions may give cause of condemnation.
This is also to be understood as if it continued “unless we give a right
judgment,” etc. (Mat. 7:2).

3. Grief and Complaint
Gen. 25:22.-"If it be so, why am | thus--?”

Rebekah’s words of grief and complaint are not completed. She
could not understand why, if Jehovah was intreated and answered
Isaac’s prayer, she should so suffer that the answer was almost as
hard to be borne as her former condition.

Jdg. 5:29-30.-There is a wonderful Aposiopesis here, where the
mother of Sisera looks out of her lattice and wonders where Sisera is,
and why he does not return. Her wise ladies answered her, “But she
repeated her words to herself.” Her soliloquy ends in a sudden
silence. Everything is left to the imagination as to how she bears it. All
is lost in the sudden outburst Of the song “So perish all thy foes, O
Jehovah”! See under Homoeopropheron.

Psa. 6:3.-“My soul is also sore vexed; but thou, O Lord, how long--?”

The words are drowned in grief: “How long shall | be sore vexed?
How long [before thou wilt arise?]’ Thus his prayer is submitted to the
will of God.

Luk. 15:21.-“Father, | have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight,
and am no more worthy to be called thy son--.”

It is as though, broken down by the grief which the utterance of
these words brought into his heart, he could not continue, and say the
rest of what, we are told, he had resolved to say in verse 19.
Or it is also to show us as well, that the father’s joy to receive is so
great that he would not wait for the son to finish, but anticipated him
with his seven-fold blessing.

See under Polysyndeton.

Luk. 19:42.-“If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day,
the things which belong unto thy peace--! but now they are hid from
thine eyes.”

The blessedness involved in this knowledge is overwhelmed by
the tribulation which is to come upon the nation.

The continuation of the sense would probably be “How happy thou
wouldest have been! How blessed! How safe! How secure! but now
they are hid from thine eyes.”

4. Enquiry and Deprecation
Hos. 9:14.-“Give them, О Lord: what wilt thou give--?” As though
unable to conceive the punishment deserved, the Prophet breaks off
and goes back to the thought of verse 11.
Joh. 6:62.-“And if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he
was before--?”

This has already been referred to under Ellipsis (see p. 54). But
something more is implied; more than can be supplied by any specific
words, such as, “Will ye believe then?” For He did afterwards ascend
up, but they still refused to believe!
Act. 23:9.-According to some ancient MSS. all the critical Greek texts
read the verse, “We find no evil in this man: but, if a spirit or an angel
hath spoken to him--.”

Either the Pharisees were afraid to express their thoughts, or their
words were drowned in the “great dissension” (verse 10) which
immediately “arose.” For there is a sudden silence, which some
copyists have attempted to fill up by adding the words ur) θεομαχῶμεν.
(mee theomach?men), “let us not fight against God.”

Meiosis: or, A Be-Littleing
(A be-littleing of one thing to magnify another)
Mei-??-sis. Greek µείωσις, a lessening, or diminution: from µειόω
(mei-o-?), to make smaller.

It is known also by the name LITOTES, /i’-to-tees: Greek λιότης,
plainness, simplicity.

The Latins called it DIMINUTIO (Di-mi-nu-ti-o) and EXTENUATIO
(Ex-ten’-u-a’-ti-o).

By this figure one thing is diminished in order to increase another
thing. It thus differs from Tapeinosis (q.v. [Note: Which see_] ), in which
