DESCRIPTIO, a description of the time.

The Figure is used, when, by the addition of the time, something
explanatory is given which helps to the understanding of what is said;
or, supplies some important fact; or, implies some extra lesson.

All such expressions, as “then” or “at that time,” should be noticed;
and attention should be directed to the time to see when it was, and
why the particular time should have been thus described or referred
to. See
Mat. 11:25-26.-“At that time Jesus answered and said, | thank thee, O
Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things
from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. Even
so Father: for so it seemed good in thy sight.”
Why is this specially marked by the words “at that time”? Because
it was the time when John the Baptist questioned Him (11:2-6); when
the people are rebuked for having said that John had a devil, and
Christ was a glutton and drunkard (16-19); when the cities, in which
most of His mighty works were done, repented not, and had their
“woe” pronounced (20-24). “At that time,” Jesus said, “Even so,
Father: for so it seemed good in thy sight.” In other words, He found
rest “at that time,” in the hour of what man would call disappointment
and failure, in the Father’s will. And then, He turns to His weary and
heavy-laden servants, and invites them to come and find their rest
where He found His; and thus to wear His yoke, and find His rest.
(See this passage under other Figures: viz., Synecdoche,
Catachresis, Idiom, and Parechesis.)

Joh. 10:22.-“And it was winter.” This brief description of time, is
intended to convey to us a sense of the humiliation and rejection of
the Lord Jesus. The next verse tells how He “walked in Solomon's
porch,” on the bleak summit of Mount Moriah, to keep Himself warm;
no one asking Him to house or inviting Him even into such of the
Temple Chambers as had fires in them.

We may compare Joh. 18:18.

See also Mar. 6:48. Act. 2:15; Act. 10:3; Act. 10:9, etc.

When the description is confined to the circumstances, it is called
Peristasis; or, Description of Circumstances
Per-is’-ta-sis’, from the Greek περιστασις, anything that is round
about, circumstances; and this from περι (peri), around, and στάσις
(stasis), a standing, setting, or placing:

Peristasis is the name of the figure which describes the
circumstances; and hence, it was called by the Latins,
CIRCUMSTANTI.DESCRIPTIO.

See Joh. 4:6; Joh. 18:18, etc.

When this figure is used for the purpose of moving the passions by
a graphic description of circumstances, it is called

DIASKEUE.

Di-as-keu’-ee’ (διασκευή), from διασκευάζεσθαι (diaskeuazesthai),
to arm, equip, or prepare oneself. the argument being made out of the
particular circumstances of a case.

When the description is confined to the order of certain persons,
things, events, or circumstances, it is called
