a thing is lessened in order to emphasize its own greatness or
importance.

In Meiosis there is an omission therefore, not of words, but of
sense. One thing is lowered in order to magnify and intensify
something else by way of contrast.

It is used for the purpose of emphasis; to call our attention, not to
the smallness of the thing thus lessened, but to the importance of that
which is put in contrast with it.

Gen. 18:27.-“And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, | have
taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, which am but dust and ashes.”

Here Abraham humbles himself; and, alluding to the creation of
man out of the dust of the ground (Gen. 2:7), he implies much more
than he expresses. In calling himself “dust and ashes,” he contrasts
himself with the high and holy God whom he is addressing, and takes
the place of a man most vile and a creature most abject. So Jehovah
uses the same figure in 1Ki. 16:2. Psa. 113:7, &c. See under
Synecdoche.

Num. 13:33.-“And we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so
we were in their sight.” This is the Meiosis of unbelief. To gain
credence for their words they exaggerated the size of the Anakim by
lessening their own stature. On the other hand, the language of faith
used a very different figure. Compare 14:9, under the Figure of
Ellipsis, page 37.
1Sa. 24:14.-“After whom is the king of Israel come out? After whom
dost thou pursue? After a dead dog, after a flea,” i.e., you do that
which is altogether unworthy of a king, in pursuing one who is as
harmless as a dead dog (compare 17:43; 2Sa. 3:8; 2Sa. 9:8; 2Sa.
16:9) and as worthless as a flea, which is poor game for a royal hunter
(1Sa. 26:20).

Ezr. 9:8.-“And now for a little space (Heb. moment) grace hath been
shewed from the Lord our God.” To magnify the greatness of the grace
the Holy Spirit, by Ezra, speaks of the “little space.” The comparison is
not to the greatness of their transgressions, which are stated in verses
6 and 7, etc., but to their length and the length of the previous
chastisement, which had been begun by the kings of Assyria. See
Neh. 9:32, and Ezr. 6:22, where Cyrus, “the king of Babylon” (5:13), is
called the king of Assyria, having absorbed the kingdoms of Media,
Persia, and Assyria, and thus the oppressor, by God’s grace, had
become the friend.
Psa. 22:6.-“I am a worm, and no man.” Here, as elsewhere, this figure
is used to denote a much greater depth of humility and affliction than
words can express. So Job. 25:6. Isa. 41:14. The greater the
humiliation, the greater the contrast with His glorification: for He who is
“a worm and no man” in Psa. 22:1-31 is “Jehovah my shepherd” of
Psa. 23:1-6, and “the King of glory” of Psa. 24:1-10 In these three
Psalms we thus have in xxii. “the Good Shepherd” in death (Joh.
10:11); “the Great Shepherd” in resurrection (Heb. 13:20; and “the
Chief Shepherd” in glory (1Pe. 5:4).
Isa. 40:15.-“Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are
counted as the small dust of the balance: behold, he taketh up the
isles as a very little thing.”

And even this fails to convey to our minds the wondrous gulf
between the finite and the infinite.

Verse 17: “All nations before him are as nothing: and they are
counted to him less than nothing and vanity.”
Mat. 15:26.-“It is not meet to take the children’s bread, and to cast it to
dogs.” It is not only not fair, but it is cruel to one’s children thus to
deprive them of their food.

See further under the figure of Hypocatastasis.
Mat. 18:14.-“Even so it is not the will of your Father which is in
heaven, that one of these little ones should perish.”

No! It is contrary to His wish. His will embraces much more than
this, it includes:-

Predestination (Eph. 1:5).

Regeneration (Joh. 1:13; Jam. 1:18).

Deliverance from the world (Gal. 1:4).

Sanctification (1Th. 4:3; Heb. 10:10).

Final Preservation, Resurrection, and Eternal Life (Joh. 6:39-40).
Mat. 22:3.-“And they would not come.” The Greek is:-oUk ἤθελον
ἐλθεῖν (οι eethelon elthein), they did not wish to come, this is
enhancing, by Meiosis, the fact that they not only absolutely refused,
but in doing so they acted only on the wish of their heart.

Luk. 17:9.-“Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that
were commanded him? | trow not.” {.6., | think not. More is to be
understood than is expressed: i.e., | know very well he doth not thank
him. So far from that, he scarcely notices the matter.

Joh. 15:20.-“If they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also,”
i.é., as surely as they have NOT kept my saying, they will not keep
yours. The whole context shows that this must be the figure of
Meiosis.

Rom. 10:19.- will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no
people.” οὐκ ἔθνος (ouk ethnos), а non-people. So 1Pe. 2:10 : “Which
in time past were not a people,” ой λαός" [Note: This is not the same
as Rom. 9:26, where the pronoun “my” is used.] (ou laos). Owing to
the reversive power of the negative our own word “nothing” is literally
a non-thing, i.e., a thing which has no existence at all.t [Note: In Amo.
6:13, “a thing of naught” is the same, а non-existent-thing]

Such were we Gentiles. But through grace, “a people” is now
being taken out from among all nations (Act. 15:14. Rev. 5:9; Rev.
7:9), which shall have an existence for ever and ever.
1Со. 9:17.-“For if | do this thing willingly, | have a reward.” He means
gratuitously; but lessens the wording, so as to increase his meaning.
See also under Oxymoron.
1Со. 15:9.-“I am the least of the apostles.” This is said to magnify the
grace of God (verse 10). Whereas, when magnifying his claims, he
could say to these same Corinthians, “I suppose | was not a whit
behind the very chiefest apostles” (2Co. 11:5; 2Co. 12:11-12).
Eph. 3:8.-“Who am less than the least of all saints.” This marks the
apostle’s growth in grace, who a year after could say he was “the chief
of sinners” (1Ti. 1:15). See also under Oxymoron.

Philem. 11.-“Which in time past was to thee unprofitable.” This is a
Meiosis, for Onesimus was guilty of injury.

Heb. 9:12.-“The blood of goats and calves,” (13) “the blood of bulls
and of goats.” Here the figure lessens the importance of the sacrifices
which were offered under the Law, in order to increase by contrast the
great sacrifice to which they all pointed.

Heb. 13:17.-“For that is unprofitable for you.” It is really much more
than that! It is disastrous and ruinous.

1Jn. 3:17.-“But whoso hath this world’s good,” etc.

Here the Greek is τὸν βίον τοῦ κόσμον (ton bion tou kosmou), the
life of the world, i.e., the means of life or of living which the world
gives. Whoso has this, and will not give it up for his brother, how
dwelleth the Love of God in him? The force of the Meiosis is seen
when we compare this with verse 16, “We ought to lay down our lives
for the brethren.” But here is a man who will not only not lay down his
life (ψυχή), psyche, but will not even part with the means of supporting
it. What a contrast to true love! Hereby know we LOVE, because HE
laid down His life for us.
Tapeinosis; or, Demeaning
(A lessening of a thing in order to increase it)
Ta-pei-n??-sis. Greek ταπείνωσις, a demeaning or humbling.

This differs from Meiosis in that in Meiosis one thing is diminished
in order, by contrast, to increase the greatness of another, or
something else.

Whereas, in Tapeinosis the thing that is lessened is the same thing
which is increased and intensified.

The figure was also called ANTENANTIOSIS. Ant’-en-an-ti-o -sis
from амт! (anti), over against, or instead of, and ἐναντίος (enantios),
opposite.

When the figure is used parenthetically, it is called ANRESIS. See
below under Parenthesis.

The figure is used in connection with nouns, verbs, and adverbs,

1. Positively.

2. Negatively.

1. Positively
