1Co. 15:5-8.-Speaking of the resurrection of Christ, it is written: “He
was seen of Cephas; then of the twelve: after that, he was seen of
above five hundred brethren at once: ... after that, he was seen of
James; then of all the apostles: and, last of all he was seen of me
also, as of one born out of due time.”

In like manner we have the same words employed of the
resurrection of “those who are Christ's”:
1Co. 15:22-24, where, after saying that, as all who are in Adam die,
even so all who are in (the) Christ will be made alive (see
Synecdoche), “but every man in his own order (or rank).

“Christ the first-fruits;

“Afterward they that are Christ's at His coming.
“Then cometh the end”; or, “then, τὸ τέλος, the end” or the last final
rank of this great army of raised people. So that there is no such thing
as what is called a “general resurrection”; for as nearly nineteen
hundred years have elapsed between the “first-fruits” and “them that
are Christ's,” so there will be a thousand years between then and the
last or second resurrection (Rev. 20:1-6). See page 87, under Ellipsis.
1Th. 4:15-17.-Here, We have the order of events at the coming forth
of Christ into the air to receive His people unto Himself, before His
coming unto the earth with them.

This new revelation was given to the apostle “by the word of the
Lord,” and contains facts not before made known.

The resurrection, here revealed, is altogether different in time and
order from the “first” and “second” resurrections in 1Co. 15:22-24 and
Rev. 20:1-6. These were never a secret, but known, and referred to in
the Old Testament Scriptures (Dan. 12:1-2. Psa. 49:14 (15), etc.), as
well as in the Gospels (Joh. 5:28-29, etc.). This resurrection takes its
place with that which is told as a secret in 1Co. 15:51-57 : “Behold, |
show you a mystery”: i.e., “Behold, | tell you a secret.”

So, here, it is revealed that “we which are alive and remain unto
the coming of the Lord shall not prevent ({6., precede) them which are
asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God; and the
dead in Christ shall rise first: then, we which are alive and remain
shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord
in the air: and so (i.e., thus, in this manner) shall we ever be with the
Lord.”