Ep’-i-cri’-sis, from the Greek ἐπὶ (epi), upon, and κρίσις (krisis), a
judgment sentence. Hence Epicrisis is used as an adjudication.

It is a short sentence added at the end by way of an additional
conclusion, other and more than has been already stated: not
necessary to the sense of it, but as showing that there is something
more and something deeper than what lies on the surface.

It notes a cause or a consequence arising from the place,
occasion, end, or effect, of things, actions, or speeches.

A few examples will explain better the use of this figure.

Joh. 1:24.-The sentence, “And they which were sent were of the
Pharisees,” is added to remind us of the fact that the Pharisees made
a great point of Baptism; which compelled them therefore to
acknowledge the baptism of John to be a matter of great importance.
Joh. 1:28.-“These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan,
where John was baptizing.”

This is to explain that the people had come a long way.

Joh. 3:24.-“For John was not yet cast into prison.”

This is why John had not ceased to baptize.

Joh. 5:39-40.-Here we have in two verses a double Epicrisis, the first
approving, and the second condemning, but both adding a solemn
truth, independent of the statement that goes before.
A “Search the Scriptures;
B For in them ye think ye have eternal life.
ΑΓ’ And they are they which testify of me:
Bo And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.”
The structure agrees also with this. It is thus exhibited in four
members.

In the first and third members (A and A), we have the Scriptures;
while in the second and fourth (B and B, the Epicrisis), we have the
action and the conduct of those who possessed them.

Note that the verb “search” is imperative, and not indicative, as we
never find the verb in the indicative commencing a sentence without
the pronoun or some other word; while the imperative is frequently so
used. See Joh. 14:11; Joh. 15:20. The Jews read, but they did not
“search.”

The verb “think” also means {ο hold as an opinion, believe (see
Act. 15:28. 1Co. 4:9; 1Co. 7:40, etc.).

Joh. 6:4.-“And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.” This is
added to explain how it was that so many were going out of the
country up to Jerusalem before the Passover in order to purify
themselves.

Joh. 7:5.-“For neither did his brethren believe in him.”

This solemn addition explains a great deal: especially Mar. 3:1-35;
from which it is clear, by comparing verses 21 and 31, that His mother
and brethren set out to lay hands on Him, bringing on themselves the
rebuke of verses 32-35. See under Correspondence (page 384).

Joh. 8:20.-“These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in
the Temple: and no man laid hands on him; for his hour was not yet
come.”

This Epicrisis is used to show how easily (humanly speaking) He
might have been taken where there were so many people assembled.
Joh. 8:27.-“They understood not that he spake unto them of the
Father.”

By means of this additional explanatory conclusion, we are made
astonished at the unbelief and blindness of the Jews. See 12:37.
Joh. 9:14.-“And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay,
and opened his eyes.”

The Epicrisis here explains much concerning the events recorded
in this chapter.

Joh. 9:22.-“These words spake his parents, because they feared the
Jews:” etc.

This is added to explain the action of the parents of the man born
blind.

Joh. 10:22-23.-“And it was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication,
and it was winter, and Jesus walked in the temple, in Solomon's
Porch.”

This is added to show that Christ happened to be at that feast, and
that he had not gone up to it as to the other feasts. After He had
accomplished His journey to the feast of Tabernacles (7:8), He made a
delay there, so as to remain over the feast of Dedication. (For this
feast, see 1Ma. 4:59). See page 455.
Joh. 11:13.-“Howbeit Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that
he had spoken of taking of rest in sleep.”

This Epicrisis is used to explain the meaning of what the Lord
Jesus had said.
Joh. 11:30.-“Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in
that place where Martha met him.”

This explanation is needed to enable us to understand the course
of events.
Joh. 12:33.-"This he said, signifying what death he should die.”
Joh. 12:37.-“But though he had done so many miracles before them,
yet they believed not on him.”
Act. 19:20.-“So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.”
1Jn. 3:1.-After the words “sons of God,” the best Texts with R.V.
[Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] add καὶ ἐσμεν (kai esmen), and
we are; or, and such we are. This is a short parenthetical reflective
comment. Compare 1:2.
Epitasis; or, Amplification
Addition of Conclusion by way of Emphasis
E-pit’-a-sis (ἑπίτασις), a stretching, from ἑτή (epi), upon, and Teivelv
(teinein), to stretch or extend.
