Epiphonema; or, Exclamation
Addition of Conclusion by way of Exclamation
Ep?-i-pho?-nee?-ma (ἐπιφώνημα), from ἐτή (ερῆ, upon, and @wveiv
(pho?nein), to speak. Hence, something uttered besides; an
exclamation at the conclusion of a sentence.

When the exclamation occurs as an independent separate
passage, then it is called Ecphonesis or Exclamatio (q.v. [Note: Which
see.] ), and does not come under this division as a mere addition of
words; but rather under their application as an expression of feeling.
See Ecphonesis.

And note, further, that, when the exclamation is thrown in
parenthetically, it is called Interjectio (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ).

Epiphonema is called also DEINOSIS when it is very brief and
emphatic, from δείνωσις, an enhancing, exaggerating.

Jdg. 5:31.-“So let all thine enemies perish, О Lord.”
Psa. 2:12.-“Blessed are all they that put their trust in him.”
Psa. 3:8.-“Salvation belongeth unto the Lord. Thy blessing is upon
Thy people.”
Psa. 14:7.-At the conclusion of the Psalm, this exclamation is added:
“Oh, that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion!” etc.

See under Paronomasia and Меюпоту-
Psa. 135:21.-“Praise ye the Lord”: {6., Hallelujah, comingat the end of
this and other Psalms, is an Epiphonema.
Jon. 2:9.-“Salvation is of the Lord.”
Mat. 11:15.-“He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.”

Also in all the sixteen occurrences of this Epiphonema. (See under
Polyptoton).
Mat. 17:5.-“This is my beloved Son, in whom | am well pleased.” And,
then, the beautiful Epiphonema is added, “Hear ye Him” as an
appended exhortation.
Mat. 20:16.-“For many are called, but few are chosen.”

See also 22:14.
Mat. 24:28.-“For wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be
gathered together.”

See under Parcemia-
Rev. 22:20 is a beautiful Epiphonema, not only to the chapter and the
book, but to the whole Bible: “Even so, come, Lord Jesus.”
Proecthesis; or, Justification

Addition of Conclusion by way of Justification
Pro-ec’-the-sis (προέκθεσις), from Ττρό (pro), before, and ἔκθεσις
(ekthesis), a setting out by way of conclusion, from ἐκτθημι
(ektitheemi), to set out. A conclusion from what has been before set
out or put forth.

The figure is employed when a sentence is added at the end by
way of justification. It is a conclusion by way of adding a justifying
reason for what has been said.

Mat. 9:13.-‘I will have mercy, and not sacrifice: for | am not come to
call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.”

Mat. 12:12.-“How much then is a man better than a sheep? Wherefore
it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days.”
