wife.”
Symperasma; or, Concluding Summary
Addition of Conclusion by way of a brief Summary
Sym’-per-as’-ma (συμπέρασμα), a finishing or end. In logic it is the
conclusion of a syllogism. It is from σύν (sun), together with, and
περαιόω (peraio?), to carry over or across-

Hence, Symperasma means to conclude along with, to end
together, and is used when what has been said is briefly summed up,
and when certain foregoing enumerations are given in a brief epitome.

It is called also ATHRCESMOS (a-throes’-mos), from ἀθροίξω
(athroiz?), to collect or gather together.

It differs from Synathroesmus (q.v. [Note: Which see-] ) in that it is
used at the end and as the conclusion of what has been before said,
and not in the course, and as part of the statement.

Mat. 1:17.-Here, in this one verse, is given a brief summary of the
preceding sixteen verses.
Joh. 20:30.-Here is a brief reference to much that is not contained in
the whole Gospel.
Heb. 11:39.-Here, after having enumerated a number of persons, and
of facts concerning them, one brief sentence includes and is true of
them all: “And these all, having obtained a good report through faith,
received not the promise.”
5. Interpositio

By way of Interposition
This figure is the addition of a sentence, not at the end, but in the
midst of another sentence, which has no grammatical connection with
what precedes or follows. It has a close connection with it, but it may
or may not be necessary to the sense.

The current of the language is interrupted by the interposition of
another sentence, which requires to be considered separately. There
may, however, be more than one such sentence interposed.

These interpositions are of various kinds, according to their nature,
and to the object in view.

Sometimes the interposition requires the leading word to be
repeated after it: such repetition is called Apostasis (see under
Epanalepsis).

Sometimes it is not put down at all till after the interposition.

In the structure of a passage, (see under Correspondence), the
various members are more or less parenthetical with relation to those
that precede and follow.
For example, in an alternate structure such as the first and second
chapters of the Epistle to the Hebrews:-
A Heb. 1:1-2.
BOO Heb. 1:2-14.
A“ Heb. 2:1-4.
B Heb. 2:5-18.
B is parenthetical with reference to A and A, while A is parenthetical
with reference to B and B: A reading on in continuation of A; and B the
same with reference to B.
So also in an introverted structure:
Aco—
Boo—
coo—
οἳ--
Bo
Aco—
The whole of B, C, C, and B are parenthetical with relation to A
and A; while C and C are the same with reference to B and B-
The observation of this is often necessary to the true
understanding and indeed the interpretation of many passages of
Scripture.

But these are not true interpositions, and do not come under the
class of figures called INTERPOSITIO-

They are not always marked, either in the Greek Text or in the
translations. Modern editors of the Greek Text mark them sometimes
by commas, and sometimes by colons.

The translators have sometimes indicated them by the use of the
curved lines (--), or by dashes - and -, or simply by commas. But there
are many more beside those that are thus pointed out.

Parenthesis

Parenthetic Addition, by way of Explanation: Complete in Itself
Pa-ren’-the-sis, παρένθεσις, from παρα (para), beside, and ἐντιθέναι
(entithenai), to put or place in-

The figure is used when a word or sentence is inserted which is
necessary to explain the context. As to grammar, the context is
