SUBCONTINUATIO is the name given to it by the Latins; because
sentences thus thrown in, by the way, as a kind of undercurrent,
continue one thought or statement underneath another, or follow
another immediately after.

Gen. 15:13.-“Know of a surety that thy seed* [Note: I.e., from the birth
of Isaac, Abraham’s “seed,” not from the call of Abraham, as Exo.
12:40.] shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs

(and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them;)
four hundred years.”

The Epitrechon, like a true Parenthesis, is the result of Structure,
or Correspondence:

a0 “Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land

that is not theirs:
6099 and shall serve them;
b=0 and they shall afflict them;

a- four hundred years.”

Here in “a” and “a” we have the whole sojourn, while in “b” and “b”
we have the servitude in Egypt.

Gen. 46:26.-“All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt
(which came out of his loins)
besides Jacob’s sons wives, all the souls were three-score and six.
This Epitrechon points us to the difference between the
enumeration here (66) and Act. 7:14, where it is 75 souls, because it
there includes “all his kindred.”

Exo. 12:40.-“Now the sojourning of the children of Israel
(who dwelt in Egypt)
was four hundred and thirty years.”

It does not say (as most commentators read it) that they were or
had been in Egypt 430 years. It was “the sojourning of the children of
Israel” which continued during that time, while the Epitrechon, “who
dwelt in Egypt,” is a parenthetical interposition thrown in as a further
explanation as to these children of Israel.
1Ki. 8:39; 1Ki. 8:42.

Psa. 68:18 (19) is a beautiful Epitrechon-
“Thou hast ascended on high,
Thou hast led captivity captive:
Thou hast received [and given* [Note: See Ellipsis, page
74.]] gifts for men,
(Yea, for the rebellious also),
That the Lord God might dwell among them.”

How blessed and full of precious truth and teaching is the fact thus
thrown in. Reaching out and stooping down to the most unworthy
recipients of such divine gifts.
Mat. 9:6.-“But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on
earth to forgive sins,
(then saith he to the sick of the palsy)
Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thine house.”
Joh. 2:9.-“(but the servants which drew the water knew).”
Joh. 4:7-9.-“Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink
(For his disciples were gone away into the city to buy
meat).
Then saith the woman,” etc.
Act. 1:15.-“And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the
disciples, and said
(the number of names together were about an hundred and
twenty):
Men and brethren,” etc.
Rom. 3:7-8.-“Why yet am | also judged as a sinner? And [why] not
[say]
(as we be slanderously reported, and some affirm that we
say):
Let us do evil that good may come?”
Rom. 8:19-21.-This parenthesis is better shown by exhibiting the four
alternate members:-

A™ 19. Expectation.

Bo 20-. Reason. (Creation made subject).

Α:: -20. Expectation.

B 21. Reason. (Creation delivered).

See under Ellipsis (page 87), and note that the words “not willingly,
but by reason of Him who hath subjected the same” are an
Epitrechon, and the previous statement requires to be taken
up-“[waiteth, | say] in hope.”

Rom. 9:2-3.-“I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart
(for | used to wish, even | myself, to be accursed from
Christ) for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh.”

The word ηὐχόμην (eeuchomeen) is by Hyperbaton (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]) put (out of its usual place) at the beginning of the
sentence in order to attract our attention; and, when we look further at
it, we notice that it is in the imperfect tense, and is best as well as
most correctly rendered: “I used to wish.”
See under Euche, a figure so called on account of this very word,
eeuchomeen.
Rom. 10:6-7.-“Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven?
(that is, to bring Christ down from above);
or, Who shall descend into the deep?
(that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead).”
Eph. 2:5 “(by grace ye are saved).”
Col. 2:21-22 is an important Epitrechon, which writes folly on all the
attempts to improve the old nature, by vows and pledges and badges.
Heb. 12:20-21.
Cataploce; or, Sudden Exclamation
Parenthetic Addition by Way of Exclamation
Cat’-a-plok’-ee (καταπλοκή), from κατά (kata), down, and πλοκή
(plokee), a twining or plaiting. The figure is so called because the
