1Sa. 17:4-7.-The description of Goliath’s armour and weapons is
given; and it is left for us to conclude how great his strength must have
been.

Isa. 2:3-4.-“Out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord
from Jerusalem. And he shall judge among the nations, and shall
rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares,
and their spears into pruninghooks.”

Here the facts, or premisses, are stated, but it is left for us to draw
the conclusion as to the marvellous results of this wonder-working
word, which going out of Zion shall bring them about. That “Word of
the Lord” by which the heavens and earth were created shall presently
be spoken and bring peace and prosperity to the nations.

Isa. 4:1.-“And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man,
saying, We will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel: only let
us be called by thy name, to take away our reproach.”

This is the continuation and conclusion of chap. 3: in which, from
verse 18, the punishment of the pride of the “daughters of Zion” is set
forth: but it is left for us to draw the solemn conclusion, How great
must be the desolation:-the gates, where the husbands of the
daughters of Zion used to assemble, now mourn and are deserted;
(3:26. Jer. 14:2. Lam. 1:4)-and the women whom many men did woo
now come and offer themselves to one man, renouncing the legal
claim of the wife (Exo. 21:10).
Isa. 49:20.-Here the greatness of Zion’s blessing and prosperity is
shown by the statement of the facts in verses 18-21. It is left for us to
draw this conclusion which is left unstated.
Mat. 10:30.-“But the very hairs of your head are all numbered,” {6.,
therefore how infinite must be the knowledge of our “Father”! how
should | not therefore fear Him!
Mat. 24:20.-“But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on
the sabbath day.” The conclusion is implied:-for then would your
troubles and distress be increased and intensified beyond the power
of tongue to tell.
Luk. 7:44.-“Thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath
washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her
head.” What is implied is-How much greater therefore is her love than
yours! So verses 45 and 46.
1Со. 11:6.-“If the woman be not covered, let her be shorn also.”

But she is not shorn, therefore the conclusion is, let her be
covered.
2Th. 3:10.-“If any would not work, neither should he eat.”

Here the conclusion is to be supplied: Every man must eat;
therefore every man must work: for it is not meant that a man’s food is
to be withdrawn from him.