Rom. 7:1-6.-Here the fact is asserted that law has dominion over a
man only while he is alive (verse 1), and this fact is applied to those
who died (i.e., were judicially reckoned as having died) when Christ
died. So that all the members of the body of Christ died, and therefore
the law has no logger dominion over them (verses 5, 6).

In proof of this, an illustrative argument is used, as to the case of a
husband and wife. Both are bound to each other by law: and, while
both are alive the union of one of them with another person is
unlawful; but, if one be dead, then such a union on the part of the
survivor is legitimate.

But only one of the cases is given: viz., the death of the husband.

The death of the wife is there, but only in thought; and this other
premiss has to be supplied by the mind in the course of the argument.

So that after the third verse we must add the other premiss in
some such words as these:-

“And if the wife die, | need not say that she is free’; or, “but it goes
without saying that if the wife die, of course she is free.”

Wherefore (as the conclusion is given in verse 6) we died in Christ,
and are therefore free from that law wherein we were held; for “he that
has once so died stands justified (the penalty having been paid) from
his sin.

Now if we died with Christ we have been raised also with Him (6:8.
Col. 2:12). Thus we were planted together with Him in “His death, and
raised with Him (6:4) to newness of life. And be it noted that this is no
mere marriage union. To prevent this conclusion the verb to marry is
not used in verses 3 and 4. There, instead of the usual verb marry,
which we should expect to find, we have the verb to become, with the
dative case; and must in each instance supply the Ellipsis. In the case
of the woman, she “becomes” joined, “becomes” bound under the law
to a husband; but, in the case of those who died with Christ, they
“become” united to Him as members of His body and “become” His
property. Their union with Him is not in Incarnation, but in death,
burial, and resurrection; and having died with Him are freed from the
Law, instead of being bound to it.

Mat. 27:19.-“Have thou nothing to do with that just man.”

Here the fire, and feeling, and urgency of Pilate’s wife is all the
more forcible, in that she does not stop to formulate a tame, cold
argument, but she omits the major premiss; which is greatly
emphasized by being left for Pilate to supply. The complete Syllogism
would have been:

1. It is very wicked to punish a just or innocent man.

2. Jesus is a just man.

3. Have therefore nothing to do with punishing him.

The conclusion thus contains the proof of each of the premisses
on which it rests.

Thus is emphasized one of the four testimonies borne to the
innocence of the Lord Jesus by Gentiles at the time of His
condemnation.

1. Pilate’s wife (Mat. 27:19).

2. Pilate himself, “I am innocent of the blood of this just person”
(Mat. 27:24).

3. The dying malefactor, “This man hath done nothing amiss” (Luk.
23:41).

4. The Centurion, “Certainly this was a righteous man” (Luk.
23:47).