Isa. 34:4.-“And the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll.” Here,
(in the Heb.) the word “heavens” is emphasized by being, by
Hyperbaton, put last: “And they shall be rolled together as a scroll-the
heavens.”

Jer. 14:1.-“The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah concerning the
dearth.” Here, by Hyperbaton, it is That which was the Word of the
Lord came, etc.

Jer. 17:3.-‘I will give thy substance and all thy treasures to the
spoiler.” Here, the verb is emphasized by being put last: “All thy
substance and all thy treasures to the spoiler-will | give.”

Mat. 5:3-11.-In these verses, called the “Beatitudes,” the participle is
put out of its usual place, and made to begin the sentences instead of
ending them: thus calling attention to the emphasis placed upon it.
Mat. 7:13.-“Enter ye in at the strait gate.”

Here the adjective is placed before the noun to call attention to its
narrowness. So with the adjectives “wide” and “broad,” which are both
to be emphasized.

Luk. 16:11.-“Who will commit to your trust the true riches.”
The Hyperbaton (in the Greek) shows where the emphasis is to be
placed: “The true riches-who will entrust them to you.”

Joh. 1:1.-Here the subject, “the Word,” being defined by the article
which is prefixed to it, can be placed at the end of two of the clauses:
“In the beginning was the Word, and God the Word was’: i.e., in plain
cold English, “The Word was in the beginning ... and the Word was
God.”

The A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our
English Bible, 1611.] preserves the Hyperbaton in the first clause, but
not in the last, because the English idiom will not bear it. But in each
case we are to put the stress on “the Word.”

See under Climax.

Joh. 4:19.-The order of the words is, “Saith to him, the woman, Sir, |
perceive that a prophet art thou”: thus emphasizing both the words
“thou” and “prophet,” which should be greatly emphasized in reading.
Joh. 4:24.-“А Spirit is God.”
The true emphasis is to be placed on the word “Spirit,” through its
being placed (in the Greek) at the beginning of the sentence. In the
ordinary order, it would be placed after the subject. The two words are
transposed to call our attention to this great fact; as being the basis of
the Great Rubric which emphasizes the absolute necessity of our
worship being truly spiritual.

See under Hendiadys.

Joh. 6:60.-“Hard is this saying.”

Here again the predicate is put first, and the object last, in order to
emphasize both.

Joh. 7:4.-“For no one in secret doeth anything and [at the same time]
seeketh for it in public to be.”

Joh. 9:31.-“Now we know that sinners-God does not hear.”

Joh. 17:5.-“And now glorify me, Thou, Father, with Thyself, with the
glory which | had, before the world was, with Thee.” Here, the
mysterious depths of the words are forced upon our attention by the
Hyperbaton.

The force of it is weakened by the literalness of the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.]
Act. 17:23.-The true emphasis is here brought out by the Hyperbaton:
“For passing through and beholding the objects of your worship, |
found an altar also, on which stood inscribed, ‘To an unknown God.’
What therefore, unknowing, ye reverence, this |-even I, announce to
you.”

Rom. 1:3.-“Concerning His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.” Here, the A.V.
[Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible,
1611.] entirely loses the emphasis of the Hyperbaton, by which the
words “Jesus Christ our Lord” in sense follow the words “His Son,” but
are held back in suspense to the very end of the clause.

The R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] restores it, but we give
our own rendering of this difficult passage (verses 1-4):-

“Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, by Divine calling an apostle (see
Ellipsis), separated unto God’s Gospel which He promised in former
times through His prophets in Holy Scriptures: viz., the Gospel
concerning His Son, who was of David’s seed according to the flesh,
but was powerfully (© ™/'='=’) demonstrated to be God’s Son with
respect to His holy spiritual nature, by His resurrection from the dead*
[Note: Or “by a resurrection of dead persons”: viz., that referred to in
Mat. 27:52-53. See under Hysteresis and Heterosis.] (Psa. 2:1-12
Act. 2:1-47), even Jesus Christ our Lord.”
Rom. 5:8.-Here the words are out of the natural order to excite our
attention. The Greek is: “But commends His own love to us-God.”
The nominative is put last, and the verb first, to emphasize both.
Rom. 8:18.-“Not worthy are the sufferings of the present time
[compared with] the coming glory, to be revealed.”

Here, the emphasis is placed on the non-worthiness of the
sufferings, and the nearness of the revelation of the glory.

Rom. 11:13.-“For to you | speak, to you Gentiles, inasmuch as | am
of Gentiles the apostle.”

Here the shades of emphasis can be traced in the unusual order of
the words in which fleshly wisdom can discern only “bad grammar”!
The first and last words are seen to be very emphatic.

Rom. 12:19.-How unusual to commence like this: “Not yourselves
avenging (or, be no self-avengers), beloved, but give place to [Divine]
wrath,” thus emphasizing “yourselves.”

Rom. 14:1.-“Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not for
disputings of doubts”: {6., doubtful disputations, with emphasis on
doubtful:

1Co. 3:9.-“For God’s fellow-workers, God’s husbandry, God’s
building ye.”
The emphasis is on “God’s”; and it is to be noted that it is we who
are fellow-workers with one another; not with God, as though He were
one like ourselves. We are the fellow-workers with one another, and
we belong to God and work for Him. We work, and He it is who giveth
the increase.
1Co. 13:1.-“If with the tongues of men I speak and of angels.”

Eph. 6:8.-“Whatsoever thing each may have done that is good.”

Here the adjective is held over to the last in order to emphasize it.
τι. 1:15; 1Ti. 3:4; 1Ti. 4:9. 2Τἱ. 2:11. Tit. 3:8.-“0 15511911: Faithful
the saying.”

How much more emphatic than the ordinary coldness of the
natural order: “The saying {5 faithful.”
1Ti. 3:16.-“Great is, of godliness, the mystery.”

How wonderful is the emphasis thus placed on the word “great,”
put as it is before the subject, which is kept back and put as the very
last word in the sentence (in the Greek).

See under Synecdoche, Hendiadys, and Synonymia-
1Ti. 6:5.-“Supposing that gain is godliness.”

Here the principal word is put out of its place, at the end, to call our
attention to it. The emphasis is thus put on the word “godliness,”
“Supposing that godliness is gain.”
1Ti. 6:12.-“Keep on struggling the fine good struggle of the Faith, lay
hold on the life eternal, unto which life thou wast called also, and didst
confess the fine confession before many witnesses.”

Here the adjective “fine” (or “good”) is greatly emphasized in each
case.

Heb. 6:16.-“For with men it is the Greater by whom they swear, and of
all dispute they have a decisive settlement the oath.”

Heb. 7:4.-“To whom, even a tenth, Abraham gave out of the spoils,
the patriarch.”

Notice how the subject of the verse is kept back to the last, in
order to call attention to the fact that, if Apraham-the patriarch himself-
gave the tithe, He to whom he gave them must of necessity be
greater, even than Abraham.
Heb. 10:30.-“To me vengeance belongeth, I (even 1) will recompense,
saith the Lord”: emphasising the pronouns very strongly.
1Pe. 2:7.-To you therefore is the preciousness-[unto you] who
believe.” The subject is put last in order to emphasize the fact that the
Lord Jesus is precious only to believers and to none else.
1Pe. 3:21.-The order and emphasis of the Greek is:-

“Which [water]-in the antitype-now saves you also-namely,
baptism: not a putting away of bodily defilement, but an appeal of a
good conscience to God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ”:
i.e., that while it was water which was the instrumentality through
which Noah was brought safely through, it is the Holy Ghost who is
now the antitype of this, which we have through the resurrection of
Christ.

It was often declared that He should thus baptize: “I baptize with
water: but He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.”
1Jn. 2:24.-Here again the peculiarity of the Hyperbaton attracts our
attraction, and causes us to reflect on the words. “Ye, then, what ye
heard from the beginning (or primitively), in you let it abide: if in you
shall have abode what from the beginning ye heard, ye also, in the
Son, and in the Father, shall abide.”

So verse 27: “And you, the anointing, which ye received from Him,
in you abideth; and no need have ye that anyone should teach you:
but, as the same anointing teacheth you concerning all things, and is
true, and is not a lie, and even as it [first] taught you, ye will abide in
Him.”

Rev. 13:8.-“Whose names are not written in the book of life, of the
Lamb slain, from the foundation of the world.”
The last sentence is put by Hyperbaton out of its place, at the end,
so as to call our attention to it. It is a question whether it does not
belong to the writing of the names and not to the slaying of the
Lamb:-“Whose names are not written from the foundation of the world
in the book of life of the Lamb slain.” As in 17:8. Compare Dan. 12:1.
Psa. 69:28 and Isa. 53:7.