Speaking of Isa. 7:14, “Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a
son,” he says, “since this refers to the house of David, Isaiah has
explained how that which was spoken by God to David, ἐν μυστηρίῳ
(en mysteerio), in a mystery, would actually come to pass. Perhaps,”
he adds, “you are not aware, my friends, of this-that there were many
sayings written ἐπικεκαλυμμένως (epikekalummenés), obscurely; or,
ἐν. παραβολαῖς (en parabolais), in parables; or, µυστηρίοις
(mysteeriois), in secret signs; or, ἐν συµβόλοις (en symbolois), in
symbols; which the prophets, who lived after the persons who said or
did them, expounded.”$ [Note: Trypho, ο. 68.]

Thus it will be seen that symbol is practically synonymous with the
latter use of mystery as meaning a secret sign. It is only two or three
times so used in Scripture:-In Rev. 1:20, the stars which John saw
were a mystery: i.e., secret sign (or symbol); and in Rev. 17:5; Rev.
17:7, Babylon is said to be а mysteerion (or symbol): /.е., a secret sign
of something spiritual and moral which it represented.

Eph. 5:32 shows us that it was also synonymous with the Latin
sacramentum, which is there used to represent the Greek mysteerion.
So that the sacramentum of the Latin Vulgate meant simply a symbol.

Sacramentum is said to have reference to a military oath, but it
must have been only because of some secret sign used in connection
with the administration of the oath. From this it is clear that “the
sacrament’ so called is only a secret sign or symbol of spiritual truths
and acts or events which it is used to commemorate.

Doubtless there are many symbols in the Scriptures, but great
care and caution must be exercised in their interpretation. The
different interpretations which have been given to the same so-called
symbol, are sufficient to serve as a warning.

All Metonymies (q.v. [Note: Which see.] ) are, in a certain sense,
symbols. When, for example, “cup” is used, by Metonymy, for blessing
(Psa. 16:5; Psa. 116:13); or, “clay” for man (Isa. 64:8 (7)); or, “gate” for
entrance, etc., the one is practically a symbol of the other: and when
by repeated and constant use the one gets to be more and more
closely associated with the other, it is then used as a symbol of it and
is substituted for it. The transition stage is Hypocatastasis (q.v. [Note:
Which зее.] ) or Implication.

The stages by which a symbol is reached, therefore, are: (1) either
by Metonymy or Metaphor, one thing is used to represent another;
then (2) the one is used to imply the other; and finally (3) it becomes
permanently substituted for it as a symbol of it.

Thus, with regard to “leaven,” we have first the thing itself causing
fermentation, and therefore forbidden to be used in connection with
any sacrifice or offering to the Lord. Then it is used by Metonymy for
that which is corrupt (1Co. 5:6-8). Then by /mplication for corrupt or
evil doctrine (Mat. 16:6). And finally it is used as the permanent
symbol of it (Mat. 13:33). Indeed, “leaven” is always used in a bad
sense, and of that which is corrupt. In the case of the two wave-
loaves, where leaven was to be put into one and not into the other, the
exception is significant, and proves the rule. For one represented
Christ, and the other His People.
In the same way, “key” is used as a symbol of power and authority,
and especially the power of opening and closing (Rev. 1:18; Rev. 3:7.
Isa. 22:22). In Mat. 16:19, the power and authority of opening the
doors of the kingdom were committed to Peter, and he exercised that
commission in making the final offer of the Messiah to the nation of
Israel (Act. 2:1-47 -viii., and x.). Observe, that they were the keys of
the Kingdom, not of the church; and that he was altogether
incompetent and unable to transfer that power and authority to others.

It is scarcely necessary for us to attempt to say more with regard
to symbols. The subject would form a work by itself; and, indeed,
many works have been written upon it. We can only repeat our caution
as to their use.