Exo. 10:29 is proleptic of the final departure of Moses from Pharaoh;
as Moses did speak to him again. See 11:4-8.

1К!. 22:50 (51).-Jehoshaphat’s death is spoken of proleptically. See
2Ki. 3:1-27
Isa. 37:22 beautifully speaks of the then future rejoicing of Jerusalem
at her deliverance from Sennacherib, as already present: “The virgin,
the daughter of Zion, hath despised thee, and laughed thee to scorn”;
etc.

Isa. 48:5-7.-Jehovah describes how He had from the beginning
spoken of future things in this way, and why He had done so.

Luk. 3:19-20.-The imprisonment of John is recorded by Prolepsis.
Compare Mat. 11:2, etc.

Heb. 2:8.-“Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet.”

This is said by Prolepsis, as it is distinctly declared that “We see
not yet all things put under him.”

In like manner we are to understand those Psalms which are
written for use in millennial days; especially those commencing “the
Lord reigneth.” The Lord does not now reign in the special sense and
manner definitely spoken of and described in these and similar
Psalms. We use them now (by way of application and) by Anticipation
or Prolepsis. But the day is coming when they will be used literally,
and be true by a real interpretation to the very letter.

There are three Psalms that commence “The Lord reigneth”: viz.,
Psa. 93:1-5, xevii., and xcix.; and it is remarkable that they each end
with a reference to holiness. This is because, when the Lord does
actually reign, as here described, all will be holy. His name will be
“hallowed” on earth as it is in heaven. “In that day shall there be upon
the bells (or bridles) of the horses, HOLINESS UNTO THE LORD; and
the pots in the Lord’s house shall be like the bowls before the altar.
Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holiness unto the
Lord of hosts” (Zec. 14:20-21). And it is written in Isa. 23:18 : “Her
merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to the Lord.”

This is why also, the four living creatures who call for judgments
(Rev. 6:1-17) which shall issue in the Lord’s reign on earth, do so with
the three-fold cry of these three Psalms. “Holy, holy, holy” (Rev. 4:8).

This is why their cry is foretold in Isa. 6:3 in connection with
Adonai upon his “throne, high and lifted up” (verse 1).

The songs and words of the Apocalypse, though then (and for the
most part, if not all, now) future, are spoken of as present. In other
words they are proleptic, being given to us under the figure Prolepsis.

Only by the use of this figure can we sing many of the hymns
which are put into our mouths, when they speak of future heavenly
realities as though resurrection had already taken place; which it has
not.
5. As to Feeling
Pathopeela; or, Pathos
The Expression of Feeling or Emotion
Path’-o-poe-i-a. Greek, паботпойа, from πάθος (pathos), a feeling or
passion, and ποιεῖν (poiein), to make.

This figure is so called, because the writer or speaker manifests
some pathos or emotion: or betrays some strong and excited condition
of mind.

It is of four kinds:-

Two arising out of pleasure: love and joy. And
Two arising out of pain: hatred and sorrow.
