Mat. 11:17.-“We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced
(grcheesasthe); we have mourned unto you, and ye have not
lamented (ekopsasthe).”

Here the two words have the same ending, sasthe, which greatly
emphasizes the sense. It is as though we could render it, “We have
piped for you, and ye never stept; we dirged for you, and ye never
wept.” Though this would emphasize it, it would be by another figure
(Paronomasia, q.v. [Note: Which see] ), because the words are
similar, only vaguely in sound, but are not spelt with the same letters.

And, though the similar ending is caused by the inflection of the
verb, it is not the figure of Homoeoptoton, because the two words are
derived from the same root, which lends an additional force and
emphasis.

In the language of Syria, which Christ probably used, the words
would be r-aule, ra-ked-toon, and ff-auld, ar-ked-toon, both
verbs being from the same root and differing only in the conjugation:
r-a, meaning in one, Ю Геар or spring up, from joy (Ecc. 3:4) and in
the other {ο leap or start up from fear (Psa. 29:6; Psa. 114:4; Psa.
114:6).*[Note: This figure is not preserved in the Hebrew translation of
the New Testament; the word being soto: rekadtem, and
oct; sephadtem, which is Homoeoteleuton pure and simple.]
Joh. 1:5.-“And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness
comprehended it not.”

The figure does not appear either in the English or the Greek: but
in the Chaldee or Syriac language “darkness” is -aé, k’vel and
“comprehended?” is -ἀδ, kabel.

Joh. 10:1.-“Не that entereth not in by the door into the sheep fold.” 15
beautifully expressed in the Syriac id ОГМг ὅδόέῖί, min thar
leteero

1Co. 1:23-24.-In these verses there is a beautiful combination of four
different words from the same root in order to emphasize the
solemnity of the passage:
“We preach Christ crucified (udé, mishkal, a cross, see Gen.
48:14), unto the Jews a stumbling-block (GUI, mikshol), and unto
the Greeks foolishness (ndé, sekel), but unto them that are called,
both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power (audéé, hishkeel) of God
and the wisdom (udé, sekel) of God.”
