1. Tecta:
From the Latin tego, to roof or cover. The Prolepsis is so called when
it anticipates the objection, but confines itself merely to stating it. It is
called HYPOPHORA, hy-poph’-o-ra. Greek, ὑποφόρα, a holding
under, putting forward; then, that which is held forth, an objection.

Sometimes the objection is not stated, but is implied by the answer
which is given.

Rom. 9:6.-“Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect. For
they are not all Israel which are of Israel.”

The objection which is met is this: If Israel be rejected and cast off
for a time (as is going to be shown), then the Word of God has failed,
and is ineffectual. No! For they are not all Israel which are of Israel.
And there is to be a People taken out from among the Gentiles for His
name, as well as a remnant of Israel, according to the election of
grace.

Rom. 10:18.-“But | say, Have they not heard? (Anticipating the
objection that they have not heard.) Yes verily,” etc.

Rom. 11:1.-“l say then, Hath God cast away his people?” (Anticipating
the objection, which many make even until to-day.) To which he
replies, “God forbid,” etc.
Rom. 11:11.-“I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall [for
ever]?” (Thus anticipating the objection that they had done so, and
meeting it in the words that follow), or, “Their falling away was not the
object (or purpose) of their stumbling, was it?”
Il. Aperta

Latin, aperta, open. This use of the figure is so called, because not
only is the objection anticipated; but it is stated, and the answer also is
given.

The names for this variation are ANTHYPOPHORA, an -thy-poph
“-o-ra. Greek, ἀνθυποθόρα, a reply to an objection; from ἀντί (anti),
against, ὑπό (hypo), under, and φορέω (phores), to bring or put under.
Hence, a substitution by stealth. The figure being so called because,
by stealth, we take our opponent's objection, and substitute it for our
own.

It was also called

SCHESIS, schee™-sis. Greek, αχῆσις, a checking; because, by
anticipating the objection, we check the opponent, and keep him from
speaking or replying.
ANASCHESIS, an-a’-sche-sis’. Greek, ἀνάσχεσις, a taking on
one’s self.

PROSAPODOTON, pros-a-pod’-o-ton. Greek, προσαπόδοτον, а
giving back to or besides.

HYPOBOLE, hy-pob’-o-lee. Greek, ὑποβολή, a throwing under.
Isa. 49:14.-Zion’s objection is not merely anticipated in this verse, but
is answered in the next.

“But Zion said, The Lord hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath
forgotten me.”

“Can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not have
compassion on the son of her womb? yea, they may forget, yet will |
not forget thee.”

Mat. 3:9.-“Think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to
our father: for | say unto you, that God is able even of these stones to
raise up children unto Abraham.” See under Parechesis.

Rom. 3:1-10.-Under the figure Antimetathesis, we have shown how
the objections of an imaginary Jewish opponent are here stated and
met. See section 2, above: “As to persons.”

Rom. 4:1-3.-The objection is met, that Abraham was justified by
works-his faith being a work. This is shewn in verse 4 and the
following verses to be impossible, as denying the very first principles
of grace.
Rom. 6:1-2.-“What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that
grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we, who have died to sin,
live any longer therein?”

That is to say: If those who are “in Christ” died in God’s purpose
when Christ died, how can they live in sin?
Rom. 7:7.-“What shall we say then? that the Law is sin? God forbid.
Nay, | had not known sin, but by the Law.”
Rom. 9:14-15.-“What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness
with God? God forbid. For,” etc.
Rom. 9:19.-See above under Anteisagoge.
Rom. 11:20-21.-See above under Epitrope.
1Со. 15:35-36.-“But some man will say, How are the dead raised up?
and with what body do they come? Thou foolish man! that which thou
sowest is not quickened, except it die.”