*Gen. 9:3.-“Everything (dé) moving that liveth shall be meat for you;
even as the green herb have | given you everything.”

Here the first, according to our English idiom, is every, while the
last means the whole.
Exo. 32:16.-“The tables were the work of God, and the writing the
writing of God, graven upon the tables.” See also under Anadiplosis.
*Lev. 7:19.-“The flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be
eaten: it shall be burnt with fire; and as for the flesh, all that be clean
shall eat of the flesh.”
*Lev. 23:42.-“In booths shall ye dwell seven days; all that are
Israelites born shall dwell in booths.”
*Num. 3:33.-“Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the family
of the Mushites: these are the families of Merari.”
*Num. 8:12.-“The Levites shall lay their hand upon the bullocks: and
thou shalt offer the one for a sin-offering and the other for a burnt-
offering, unto the Lord, to make an atonement for the Levites.”
*Num. 31:40.-“And the persons (Hebrew, souls) were sixteen
thousand: of which the Lord’s tribute was thirty-and-two persons
(Hebrew, souls).”
*Num. 32:1.-‘And cattle, a very great multitude, had the sons of
Reuben and the sons of Gad; and when they saw the land of Jazer,
and the land of Gilead, behold the place was a place for cattle.”
*Num. 32:41.-“And Jair, the son of Manasseh, went and took the small
towns thereof, and called them Havoth-Jair.”

*Deu. 31:3.-“Jehovah thy God, he will go over before thee, and he will
destroy these nations from before thee, and thou shalt possess them:
and Joshua, he shall go over before thee, as hath said Jehovah.” See
also under Anadiplosis.

*Jos. 15:25.-“And Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, and Hezron, which is
Hazor.”

*Jdg. 11:1.-Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valour,
and he was the son of an harlot, and Gilead begat Jephthah.”

*4Sa. 26:23.-“Jehovah render to every man his righteousness and his
faithfulness: for the Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to-day, but |
would not stretch forth mine hand against the anointed of Jehovah.”
*2Sa. 9:12.-“Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was
Micha. And all that dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants unto
Mephibosheth.” See also under Anadiplosis.
*2Sa. 19:8.-“Now (Aud, attah) therefore, arise, go forth, and speak
comfortably unto thy servants; for | swear by the Lord, if thou go not
forth, there will not tarry one with thee this night; and that will be worse
unto thee than all the evil that befel thee from thy youth until now
(AUA, attan).

*1К!. 22:47.-“A king there was not in Edom; a deputy was king.”

*2Ki. 23:25.-“And like him there was no king before him; that turneth
to the Lord with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his
might, according to all the law of Moses: neither after him arose there
any like him.”

*1Ch. 9:8.-The verse begins and ends with “Ibneiah.”

*Neh. 11:21.-“The Nethinims dwelt in Ophel: and Ziha and Gispa
were over the Nethinims.”

*Est. 7:7.-“The king, arising from the banquet of wine in his wrath,
went into the palace garden. And Haman stood up to make request for
his life to Esther the queen: for he saw that there was evil determined
against him by the king.”

Psa. 27:14.-‘Wait on the Lord; be of good courage, and He shall
strengthen thine heart, wait (| say) on the Lord.”
See also under Apostrophe.
Psa. 53:2.-“God looked down from heaven upon the children of men,
to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God.”
Psa. 122:7-8.-
“Peace be within thy walls
And prosperity within thy palaces.
For my brethren and companion’s sake,
| will now say, Peace be within thee.”
Ecc. 1:2.-“Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities; all
is vanity.”

There is also the figure in this verse of Mesadiplosis (q.v. [Note:
Which 5εε.]).

Ecc. 7:2.-“A good name is better than ointment that is good.”

The figure is lost by the translation both in the A.V. [Note: The

Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
the R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] There is another figure in
this verse: Paronomasia (q.v. [Note: Which зее.] ).
Mar. 7:14-16.-Hearken (ἀκούετε, akouete) unto me every one of you
and understand: there is nothing from without a man, that entering into
him can defile him: but the things which come out of him those are
they that defile the man. If any man have ears to hear, let him
hearken (ἁκουέτω, akouetq).”

See under Polyptoton, for the figure employed in the last sentence.
Mar. 13:35-37.-“Watch ye, therefore: for ye know not when the master
of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cock-crowing,
or in the morning: lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what
| say unto you | say unto all, Watch.”

Luk. 12:5.-“Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast
into hell: yea, | say unto you, Fear him.”

Joh. 3:8.-In this verse the figure is hidden both in the A.V. [Note: The
Authorized Version, or current Text of our English Bible, 1611.] and
Π.Ν. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] The word is τὸ πνεῦμα (to
pneuma), the Spirit, which is used both at the beginning and the end
of the passage in the original. But at the beginning it is translated “the
wind,” and at the end “the Spirit.” The R.V. [Note: The Revised
Version, 1881.] has “the Spirit breathed, etc.” in the margin.

Now the word πνεῦμα (pneuma), spirit, occurs 385 times in the
New Testament, and is never translated “wind,” except in this one
place. There is a proper word for “wind,” which is ἄνεμος (anemos). It
occurs 31 times, and is always translated wind. So that it would have
been much clearer to have used this word, if “wind” had really been
meant.

If then we keep here the translation “spirit,” which is used
everywhere else, the verse will read and the figure appear as follows:-

“The Spirit breatheth where He willeth, and thou hearest His
voice, but thou knowest not whence He cometh or whither He goeth;
so is every one that is born of the Spirit.”

The wind has no will, but the Spirit has a will and a voice, and it is
of Him that we are born.

The verb θελεῖν (thelein), to will, occurs 213 times, and always
expresses a mental act of desire or determination proceeding from
one capable of wishing, willing, or determining. See the nearly
synonymous expression in 1Co. 12:11. “But all these worketh that one
and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as He will.”

Moreover, it is not correct to assert this of the “wind.” We do know
whence it comes and whither it goes, and the Scriptures them-
themselves assert that the comings and goings of the wind can be
easily known and traced. See Job. 1:19. Psa. 18:10. Ecc. 1:6, Eze.
37:9. Luk. 8:23. But not so of the Spirit (see Ecc. 11:5), where “spirit”
is placed in direct contrast with “wind” in the previous verse.
The things opposed in the immediate context are flesh and spirit,
earthly things and heavenly things, nature and grace, and AS the
Spirit in His movements is contrary to nature and above nature, SO is
every one who is born of the Spirit. Those who are thus born are “sons
of God, therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew Him not”
(1Jn. 3:1). As the world knoweth not and understands not the motions
and working of the Spirit of God, so the new breathings, and new will,
and new desires, and new motions of the new nature in those who are
born of the Spirit are also unknown.

Rom. 8:24.-“Hope that is seen is not hope.”
Gal. 2:20.-In this verse the figure, which is in the Greek, is lost in the
translation owing to the difference of idiom. In the Greek it reads:-

“Christ, | have been crucified-together-with, yet | live: and yet it is
no longer | that live, but, in me, Christ.”

See also under Hyperbaton.

Php. 4:4.-“Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again | say Rejoice.”
Jam. 2:14-16.-The passage begins and ends with the words, “What
doth it profit.”
The repetitions at the beginning and end of distinct portions, or
independent passages (such as Psa. 8:1-9, ciii., etc.), belong rather to
the subject-matter and are classed under Correspondence (q.v. [Νοίε:
Which 5εε.]).