Joh. 16:8-11.-“And when he is come, he will reprove (marg. [Note:
arg. Margin.] , convince) the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of
judgment:-
“Of sin, because they believe not on me;
“Of righteousness, because | go to my Father, and ye see me
no more;
“Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged.”

Here, after the mention of the three words together, “sin,”
“righteousness,” and “judgment,” the Lord returns to them again, and
repeats them separately, for the purpose of explaining and more
particularly defining them. Thus we learn that the mission and work of
the Holy Ghost with regard to the world was to bring it in guilty (for that
is the meaning of the word) concerning these three important facts.

(1) “Sin” is not, as man regards it, some mere yielding to the lusts
of the flesh, but a refusal to believe God’s Gospel concerning His Son,
the Lord Jesus Christ. That is sin in God’s sight.

(2) “Righteousness.” Seeing they rejected Christ, and would not
believe on Him, He was, in righteousness, removed from the earth,
and is returned to the Father, until He comes again in

(3) “Judgment.” For the prince of this world has been judged,
sentence has been passed upon him, and ere long it will be put into
execution.

Rom. 11:22.-“Behold therefore, the goodness and severity of God: on
them which fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue
in his goodness; otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.”

Here, the return to the two words is not direct, as in Joh. 16:8-11,
but in an Epanodos (q.v. [Note: Which see-] ).

а000 Goodness.
b25 Severity.
b= Severity.

a®20 Goodness.

The statement refers to the Gentiles as such (see verse 13, “I
speak to you, Gentiles”), and cannot refer to the Church of God; for, of
the members of Christ's Body it has been already stated and declared
in chapter 8, that there is no condemnation, and no separation.

To interpret Rom. 11:1-36 of the Church, and not of the Gentiles as
Gentiles is not only to miss the whole teaching conveyed by the
structure (see page 385) as to the separate Doctrinal and
Dispensational sections of the Epistle, but it is to make the grace of
God of no effect, and to destroy the standing of the Christian, and his
eternal preservation in Christ.

Php. 1:15-17.-“Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife;
and some also of good will:

The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to
add affliction to my bonds:

But the other of love, knowing that | am set for the defence of the
Gospel.”

Here, after having first stated the two classes, he returns to them
to explain his meaning further.