Ellipsis

El-lip’-sis. This is the Greek word ἔλλειψις, a leaving in, from ἐν (en)
in, and λείπειν (leipein) to leave.

The figure is so called, because some gap is left in the sentence,
which means that a word or words are left out or omitted. The English
name of the figure would therefore be Omission.

The figure is a peculiar form given to a passage when a word or
words are omitted; words which are necessary for the grammar, but
are not necessary for the sense.

The laws of geometry declare that there must be at least three
straight lines to enclose a space. So the laws of syntax declare that
there must be at least three words to make complete sense, or the
simplest complete sentence. These three words are variously named
by grammarians. In the sentence “Thy word is truth,” “Thy word” is the
subject spoken of, “truth” is what is said of it (the predicate), and the
verb “is” (the copula) connects it.

But any of these three may be dispensed with; and this law of
syntax may be legitimately broken by Ellipsis.

The omission arises not from want of thought, or lack of care, or
from accident, but from design, in order that we may not stop to think
of, or lay stress on, the word omitted, but may dwell on the other
words which are thus emphasised by the omission. For instance, in
Mat. 14:19, we read that the Lord Jesus “gave the loaves to His
disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.”

There is no sense in the latter sentence, which is incomplete, “the
disciples to the multitude,” because there is no verb. The verb “gave”
is omitted by the figure of Ellipsis for some purpose. If we read the last
sentence as it stands, it reads as though Jesus gave the disciples to
the multitude!

This at once serves to arrest our attention; it causes us to note the
figure employed; we observe the emphasis; we learn the intended
lesson. What is it? Why, this; we are asked to dwell on the fact that the
disciples gave the bread, but only instrumentally, not really. The Lord
Jesus Himself was the alone Giver of that bread. Our thoughts are
thus, at once, centred on Him and not on the disciples.

These Ellipses are variously dealt with in the English Versions
(both Authorized and Revised). In many cases they are correctly
supplied by italics. In some cases the sentences are very erroneously
completed. Sometimes an Ellipsis in the Text is not seen, and
therefore is not taken into account in the Translation. Sometimes an
Ellipsis is imagined and supplied where none really exists in the
original.

Where an Ellipsis is wrongly supplied, or not supplied at all, the
words of the Text have to be very freely translated in order to make
sense, and their literal meaning is sometimes widely departed from.

But on the other hand, where we correctly supply the Ellipsis-one
word, it may be-it at once enables us to take all the other words of the
passage in their literal signification. This is in itself an enormous gain,
to say nothing of the wonderful light that may be thus thrown upon the
Scripture.

These Ellipses must not be arbitrarily supplied according to our
own individual views; we are not at liberty to insert any words,
according to our own fancies: but they are all scientifically arranged
and classified, and each must therefore be filled up, according to
definite principles which are well ascertained, and in obedience to
laws which are carefully laid down.
Ellipsis is of three kinds:
Absolute Ellipsis,
Relative Ellipsis, and the
Ellipsis of Repetition:

A. Absolute, where the omitted word or words are to be
supplied from the nature of the subject alone.

B. Relative, where the omitted word or words are to be
supplied from, and are suggested by the context.

C. The Ellipsis of Repetition, where the omitted word or words
are to be supplied by repeating them from a clause which
precedes or follows.

These three great divisions may be further set forth as follows:

A. Absolute Ellipsis, where the omitted word or words are to be
supplied from the nature of the subject.

I. Nouns and Pronouns.

1. The Nominative.

2. The Accusative.

3. Pronouns.

4. Other connected words.

II. Verbs and Participles:

1. When the verb finite is wanting:
a. especially the verb to say.
2. When the verb infinitive is wanting:
a. after МЛЙ fo be able.
b. after the verb fo finish.
c. after another verb, personal or impersonal.
3. When the verb substantive is wanting.
4. When the participle is wanting.

III. Certain connected words in the same member of a
passage.

IV. A whole clause in a connected passage:
1. The first clause.
2. The latter clause or Apodosis (Anantapodoton).
3. Acomparison.

B. Relative Ellipsis-

I. Where the omitted word is to be supplied from a cognate
word in the context.

1. The noun from the verb.
2. The verb from the noun.

II. Where the omitted word is to be supplied from a contrary
word.

III. Where the omitted word is to be supplied from analogous or
related words.

IV. Where the omitted word is contained in another word: the
one word comprising the two significations-(Concisa
Locutio, Syntheton or Compositio, Constructio Preegnans).

C. Ellipsis of Repetition-

I. Simple: where the Ellipsis is to be supplied from a
preceding or a succeeding clause.

1. From a preceding clause.
a. Nouns and Pronouns.
b. Verbs.
c. Particles.
i) Negatives.
ii) Interrogatives.
d. Sentences.
2. From a succeeding clause.

II. Complex: where the two clauses are mutually involved, and
the Ellipsis in the former clause is to be supplied from the
latter, and at the same time an Ellipsis in the latter clause is
to be supplied from the former. (Called also Semiduplex
Oratio).

1. Single words.
2. Sentences.