Anadiplosis; or, Like Sentence Endings and Beginnings

The Repetition of the same Word or Words at the end of one
Sentence and at the beginning of another
An‘-a-di-plo-sis. Greek, ἀναδίπλωσις, ava (ana), again, and διπλοῦν
(diploun), to double, or διτλοῦς (diplous), double.

It is also called EPANASTROPHE (Ep -a-nas*-tro-phe), from étri
(epi), upon, ava (ana), again, and στρέφειν (strephein, to turn), and
means, a turning upon again.

Also PALILLOGIA (pa-lil-log’-i-a), from πάλιν (palin), again, and
λόγος (logos), a word.

In Latin it is called REVERSIO, a turning back; and
REDUPLICATIO, a reduplication. The figure is so-called because the
word which ends one sentence is repeated at the beginning of the
next.
The words so repeated are thus emphasised as being the most
important words in the sentence, which we are to mark and consider
in translation and exposition.

The Massorah* [Note: See Ginsburg’s Massorah, Rubrics 422 and
423, Vol. Il. €.] gives two lists of such words; which we have included
in our examples, marking them with an asterisk.

The figure is frequently missed in the English translation, both in
the A.V. [Note: The Authorized Version, or current Text of our English
Bible, 1611.] and R.V. [Note: The Revised Version, 1881.] In these
cases we have given our own translation of the original, so as to bring
out and exhibit the words which are thus affected by the figure of
Anadiplosis.

*Gen. 1:1-2.-“In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
And the earth became without form and void.”

Thus Anadiplosis is the very first Figure employed in the Bible.
And it is used to call our attention to, and emphasize, the fact that,
while the first statement refers to two things, “the heaven and the
earth”; the following statement proceeds to speak of only one of them,
leaving the other entirely out of consideration.
Both were created “in the beginning.” But the earth, at some time,
and by some means, and from some cause (not stated) became a
ruin:-empty, waste, and desolate; or, as it is expressed by another
Figure (Paronomasia, q.v. [Note: Which see.] ), tohoo and bohoo.
Now, whatever may be the meaning of tohoo (Wal), it is expressly
stated, in Isa. 45:18, by Him who created the earth that “He created it
not tohoo (Ualy.” Therefore it must at, and after some subsequent
period of unknown duration, have fallen into the ruin which the second
verse declares and describes.

The repetition of the word “earth” here, directs our attention to this
fact; and proceeds to describe the process by which the earth was
restored and peopled.

The whole chapter exhibits a parallel between this work, and that
“new creation” [Note: Compare 2Co. 4:6; 20ο. 5:17, etc.; and see a
pamphlet on “The New Creation and the Old,” by the same author and
publisher.] which takes place in the case of every one who is born
again of the Holy Ghost, and has the new man created within him.