Ploce: or, Word-Folding

Pronounced plo-kee. Greek πλοκή (plokee), a fold or plait, from
πλέκω (plekqp), to twine, twist, weave, or braid.

As in Antanaclasis, the same word is repeated in a different sense.
Only with Ploce that sense implies more than the first use of it. It often
expresses a property or attribute of it. “His wife is a wife indeed.” In
that great victory “C@sar was C@sar.” Lord Chatham says, speaking of
Oliver Cromwell, “He astonished mankind by his intelligence, yet did
not derive it from spies in the cabinet of every prince in Europe; he
drew it from the cabinet of his own sagacious mind. He observed
facts, and traced them forward to their consequences.”

In our examples from Scripture, we will not give two separate lists
of these figures, as it is often very difficult to classify them. In many of
the examples the reader will have, however, little difficulty in
distinguishing them. Other names are also used for this figure, either
synonymous, or referring to some special variation, or shade of
meaning. It is sometimes called HOMOGENE (ὁμογενής), hqo’mo-
genes, from ὁμός, the same, and γένος, kind: i.e., of the same family:
in the case of words from the same root or origin: and is thus more
appropriately confined to the figure Polyptoton (q.v. [Note: Which see.]
).

ANACLASIS, ап -а-с/1аз -15, a breaking back.

ANTISTASIS (ἀνήστασις), an-tis’-ta-sis, a standing against, or
opposition. So called because the one word stands against the other
in an opposite sense. In Rhetoric, the figure is used where an action is
defended by showing that something worse would have happened if it
had not been done.

DIALOGIA (di-a-log~-i-a), the interchange of words or of their
meanings.

In Latin the figure is called

REFRACTIO (re-frac’-ti-o), a breaking back; similar in meaning to
Antanaclasis.

RECIPROCATIO (re-cip’-ro-ca‘-ti-o), interchange of words or
meanings.
There are instances of two words being spelt exactly alike, and yet
having different meanings. These are called HOMONYMS. We can
hardly class them with Figures of Speech, because they are not used
as such, and are not used in Repetitions. We have, however, given a
list of the most important in Appendix D.